%%%entertainment
Gallery unveils interactive tree A Christmas tree that can receive text messages has been unveiled at London's Tate Britain art gallery.
Jarre joins fairytale celebration French musician Jean-Michel Jarre is to perform at a concert in Copenhagen to mark the bicentennial of the birth of writer Hans Christian Andersen.
Musical treatment for Capra film The classic film It's A Wonderful Life is to be turned into a musical by the producer of the controversial hit show Jerry Springer - The Opera.
Richard and Judy choose top books The 10 authors shortlisted for a Richard and Judy book award in 2005 are hoping for a boost in sales following the success of this year's winner.
Poppins musical gets flying start The stage adaptation of children's film Mary Poppins has had its opening night in London's West End.
Bennett play takes theatre prizes The History Boys by Alan Bennett has been named best new play in the Critics' Circle Theatre Awards.
Levy tipped for Whitbread prize Novelist Andrea Levy is favourite to win the main Whitbread Prize book of the year award, after winning novel of the year with her book Small Island.
West End to honour finest shows The West End is honouring its finest stars and shows at the Evening Standard Theatre Awards in London on Monday.
Da Vinci Code is 'lousy history' The plot of an international bestseller that thousands of readers are likely to receive as a Christmas present is 'laughable', a clergyman has said.
Uganda bans Vagina Monologues Uganda's authorities have banned the play The Vagina Monologues, due to open in the capital, Kampala this weekend.
Artists' secret postcards on sale Postcards by artists including Damien Hirst and Tracey Emin have sold just hours after the opening of the Royal Academy of Arts annual Secrets sale.
Neeson in bid to revive theatre Hollywood film star Liam Neeson has held a dinner party in New York to promote Belfast's Lyric Theatre.
Levy takes Whitbread novel prize Orange Prize winner Andrea Levy has seen her book Small Island win the Whitbread Novel of the Year Award.
Adventure tale tops awards Young book fans have voted Fergus Crane, a story about a boy who is taken on an adventure by a flying horse, the winner of two Smarties Book Prizes.
Mutant book wins Guardian prize A book about the evolution of mutants and the science of abnormality has won the Guardian First Book Award 2004.
Arthur Hailey: King of the bestsellers Novelist Arthur Hailey, who has died at the age of 84, was known for his bestselling page-turners exploring the inner workings of various industries, from the hotels to high finance.
Spark heads world Booker list Dame Muriel Spark is among three British authors who have made the shortlist for the inaugural international Booker Prize.
Versace art portfolio up for sale The art collection of murdered fashion designer Gianni Versace could fetch up to £9m ($17m) when it is auctioned in New York and London later this year.
Slater to star in Broadway play Actor Christian Slater is stepping into the role of Tom in the Broadway revival of The Glass Menagerie.
Public show for Reynolds portrait Sir Joshua Reynolds' Portrait of Omai will get a public airing following fears it would stay hidden because of an export wrangle.
Obituary: Dame Alicia Markova Dame Alicia Markova, who has died in Bath aged 94, was the UK's first prima ballerina of the modern age, and, in her heyday, the greatest in the western world.
Fears raised over ballet future Fewer children in the UK are following in the dainty footsteps of dancers like Darcey Bussell, and carving out potential careers as ballet dancers.
Famed music director Viotti dies Conductor Marcello Viotti, director of Venice's famous La Fenice Theatre, has died in Germany at 50.
Paraguay novel wins US book prize A novel set in 19th century Paraguay has won the $10,000 (£5,390) fiction prize at the US National Book Awards.
New Harry Potter tops book chart Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince has topped Amazon's book chart less than 24 hours after its release date - 16 July - was announced.
UK's National Gallery in the pink The National Gallery, home to some of the UK's greatest artworks, has seen a big jump in visitor numbers.
Lit Idol begins search for author The second Pop Idol-style search for literary talent has begun with the help of the brother of Simon Cowell.
Potter director signs Warner deal Harry Potter director Alfonso Cuaron has signed a three-year deal with Hollywood studio Warner Brothers, according to Variety trade magazine.
Baghdad Blogger on big screen A film based on the internet musings of the "Baghdad Blogger" has been shown at the Rotterdam Film Festival.
US critics laud comedy Sideways Road trip comedy Sideways has had more praise heaped on it by two US critics' associations, adding to honours it has already picked up.
Dirty Den's demise seen by 14m More than 14 million people saw "Dirty" Den Watts killed off on Friday, marking EastEnders' 20th anniversary, according to unofficial figures.
Redford's vision of Sundance Despite sporting a corduroy cap pulled low over his face plus a pair of dark glasses, Robert Redford cuts an unmistakable figure through the star-struck crowds at Sundance.
DVD review: Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban This third Harry Potter film brought a change of director and a dramatic visual shake-up that really shines on DVD.
Vera Drake scoops film award Oscar hopefuls Mike Leigh and Imelda Staunton were both winners at the 2004 Evening Standard British Film Awards.
Hundreds vie for best film Oscar A total of 267 films are eligible for the best film Oscar but only five will be chosen to go forward as nominees.
Hanks greeted at wintry premiere Hollywood star Tom Hanks was in London's Leicester Square for the UK premiere of Polar Express.
Film row over Pirates 'cannibals' Plans to portray Dominica's Carib Indians as cannibals in the sequel to hit film Pirates of the Caribbean have been criticised by the group's chief.
Stars gear up for Bafta ceremony Film stars from across the globe are preparing to walk the red carpet at this year's Bafta award ceremony.
Aviator 'creator' in Oscars snub The man who said he got Oscar-nominated movie The Aviator off the ground and signed up Leonardo DiCaprio has been shut out of the Academy Awards race.
Wine comedy up for six film gongs Sideways, a wine-tasting comedy starring Paul Giamatti, is up for six Independent Spirit Awards, the art-house version of the Oscars.
No ads for Passion Oscar campaign Producer Mel Gibson will not be using paid advertisements to promote The Passion of the Christ to voters in next year's Academy Awards.
Berlin honours S Korean director South Korean film director Im Kwon-Taek has received an honorary Golden Bear at the Berlin Film Festival.
Stars pay tribute to actor Davis Hollywood stars including Spike Lee, Burt Reynolds and Oscar nominee Alan Alda have paid tribute to actor Ossie Davis at a funeral in New York.
US actor Ossie Davis found dead US actor Ossie Davis has been found dead at the age of 87.
Jugnot 'tops French actor league' Actor Gerard Jugnot - star of the Oscar-nominated film The Chorus - has beaten Gerard Depardieu to become France's best-paid actor of 2004.
Howl helps boost Japan's cinemas Japan's box office received a 3.8% boost last year, with ticket sales worth 211bn yen (£1.08bn).
Berlin applauds Hotel Rwanda Political thriller Hotel Rwanda was given a rousing reception by spectators at the Berlin Film Festival on Saturday.
'Landmark movies' of 2004 hailed US film professionals have declared Fahrenheit 9/11 and The Passion of the Christ as two of the most significant cultural milestones of 2004.
De Niro film leads US box office Film star Robert De Niro has returned to the top of the North American box office with his film Hide and Seek.
Willis sues over movie 'injury' Actor Bruce Willis is suing Revolution Studios over an injury he said he suffered while making Tears of the Sun.
Foxx and Swank win US awards Jamie Foxx and Hilary Swank have won the Screen Actors Guild Awards for best male and female film actors, boosting their Oscars hopes this month.
Spike Lee backs student directors Film-maker Spike Lee says black representation is stronger than ever in cinema and TV but the true power in entertainment lies behind the camera.
Horror film heads US box office A low-budget horror film produced by Evil Dead director Sam Raimi has topped the North American box office.
Mumbai bombs movie postponed The release of a film about the Mumbai (Bombay) blasts in 1993 has been postponed following protests by those on trial for the bombings.
DVD review: I, Robot Only one man recognises that robots are a threat to humanity - but that's fine because it only takes one man to save the day in the thriller I, Robot.
Brando 'rejected Godfather role' Late film star Marlon Brando is said to have repeatedly turned down his Oscar-winning role in The Godfather.
Dutch watch Van Gogh's last film The last film to be made by the slain Dutch director Theo van Gogh, called 06/05, has been premiered in The Hague.
Berlin hails European cinema Organisers say this year's Berlin Film Festival, which opens on Thursday with period epic Man to Man, will celebrate a revitalised European cinema.
Sky takes over Oscar night mantle Sky has signed a major new deal to broadcast this year's Academy Awards, taking over from three years of live Oscar coverage on the BBC.
Snicket tops US box office chart The film adaptation of Lemony Snicket novels has topped the North America box office chart, displacing Ocean's 12.
Director Nair's Vanity project Indian film director Mira Nair has said she was thrilled to be given the chance to make William Makepeace Thackeray's novel Vanity Fair - as the book has been a favourite through her life.
Spirit awards hail Sideways The comedy Sideways has dominated this year's Independent Spirit Awards, winning all six of the awards for which it was nominated.
Tautou film tops Cesar prize nods French film A Very Long Engagement has received 12 nominations for France's Cesar film awards, despite a recent ruling it was "not French enough".
Hollywood ready for Oscars night Hollywood is preparing for the biggest night in the film world's calendar, the 77th Academy Awards, on Sunday.
Animation charms Japan box office Oscar-winning director Hayao Miyazaki's latest film has set a new Japanese box office record, with 1.5bn yen ($14.3m) in two days, according to reports.
US box office set for record high Ticket sales at the US box office are predicted to break records this year, with figures expected to reach $9.4 billion, beating 2002's all-time high.
Low-budget film wins Cesar A film that follows a group of alienated youth in a Paris suburb as they prepare to perform an 18th Century play has won France's top cinema award.
Tautou 'to star in Da Vinci film' French actress Audrey Tautou, star of hit film Amelie, will play the female lead in the film adaptation of The Da Vinci Code, it has been reported.
Foxx and Swank take actors awards Jamie Foxx and Hilary Swank have won the Screen Actors Guild Awards for best male and female film actors, boosting their Oscars hopes this month.
Children vote Shrek 2 best film Young UK film fans voted animated Hollywood hit Shrek 2 best film at the children's Bafta awards on Sunday.
UK debut for Kevin Spacey movie Hollywood stars Kevin Spacey and Kate Bosworth attended the British premiere of new film, Beyond the Sea, in London's Leicester Square on Thursday.
Box office blow for Alexander Director Oliver Stone's historical epic Alexander has failed in its bid to conquer the box office, entering the US film charts at number six.
Ray DVD beats box office takings Oscar-nominated film biopic Ray has surpassed its US box office takings with a combined tally of $80m (£43m) from DVD and video sales and rentals.
Ocean's Twelve raids box office Ocean's Twelve, the crime caper sequel starring George Clooney, Brad Pitt and Julia Roberts, has gone straight to number one in the US box office chart.
Indie film nominations announced Mike Leigh's award-winning abortion drama Vera Drake has scooped seven nominations at this year's British Independent Film Awards.
Fockers fuel festive film chart Comedy Meet The Fockers topped the festive box office in North America, setting a new record for Christmas Day.
DVD review: Spider-Man 2 It's a universal rule that a film can either be a superhero special effects extravaganza or it can be good. But Spider-Man 2 breaks that rule in two.
Baby becomes new Oscar favourite Clint Eastwood's boxing drama Million Dollar Baby has become the new favourite to win best picture at the Oscars on Sunday.
Russian film wins BBC world prize Russian drama The Return (Vozvrashchenie) has been named winner of the BBC Four World Cinema Award.
US TV cuts nudity from BBC film A US TV network is editing BBC Films' Dirty War to avoid showing the front of a nude woman being scrubbed down after a fictional chemical attack.
Oscars race enters final furlong The race for the Oscars entered its final stages as the deadline for voters to choose their winners passed.
Aviator 'creator' in Oscars snub The man who said he got Oscar-nominated movie The Aviator off the ground and signed up Leonardo DiCaprio has been shut out of the Academy Awards race.
Cage film's third week at US top Nicolas Cage movie National Treasure has topped the US and Canada box office for the third week in a row.
Oscar nominees gear up for lunch Leonardo DiCaprio, Jamie Foxx and Hilary Swank are among those due to attend this year's Oscar nominees luncheon on Monday.
Church anger over Bollywood film Roman Catholic organisations in India have demanded the withdrawal of a film that depicts a priest having an affair with a girl half his age.
Bookmakers back Aviator for Oscar The Aviator has been tipped by UK bookmakers as the favourite to win the best film award at this year's Oscars.
Global release for Japan hit film Oscar-winning animator Hayao Miyazaki's latest film, Howl's Moving Castle, is to be released in 50 countries around the world, its distributor has said.
Ocean's Twelve raids box office Ocean's Twelve, the crime caper sequel starring George Clooney, Brad Pitt and Julia Roberts, has gone straight to number one in the US box office chart.
Oscar nominee Dan O'Herlihy dies Irish actor Dan O'Herlihy, who was nominated for best actor at the 1955 Oscars, has died at the age of 85.
Berlin cheers for anti-Nazi film A German movie about an anti-Nazi resistance heroine has drawn loud applause at Berlin Film Festival.
Wine comedy wins critics' award Quirky comedy Sideways was named the best film of the year by the Los Angeles Film Critics Association.
Actor Foxx sees Globe nominations US actor Jamie Foxx has been given two nominations for Golden Globe awards, with Meryl Streep, Morgan Freeman and Cate Blanchett also up for prizes.
Godzilla gets Hollywood fame star Movie monster Godzilla has received a star on Hollywood's Walk of Fame, honouring both his 50th birthday and the launch of his 28th film.
God cut from Dark Materials film The director and screenwriter of the film adaptation of Philip Pullman's His Dark Materials is to remove references to God and the church in the movie.
Aviator wins top Globes accolades The Aviator has been named best film at the Golden Globe Awards, with its star Leonardo DiCaprio named best actor.
Singer's film to show at festival A documentary which takes a candid look at the life of chart-topping singer George Michael will be shown at this year's Berlin Film Festival.
Surprise win for anti-Bush film Michael Moore's anti-Bush documentary Fahrenheit 9/11 has won best film at the US People's Choice Awards, voted for by the US public.
Da Vinci film to star Tom Hanks Actor Tom Hanks and director Ron Howard are reuniting for The Da Vinci Code, an adaptation of the international best-selling novel by Dan Brown.
Controversial film tops festival A controversial film starring Hollywood actor Kevin Bacon as a convicted paedophile won top honours at the London Film Festival on Thursday.
Fockers retain film chart crown Comedy Meet The Fockers has held on to the number one spot at the North American box office for a second week.
Sundance to honour foreign films International films will be given the same prominence as US films at next year's Sundance Film Festival, with movies dominated by the theme of war.
Day-Lewis set for Berlin honour Actor Daniel Day-Lewis is to be presented with an award for his career in film at the Berlin Film Festival.
Downloads enter US singles chart Digital music downloads are being included in the main US singles chart for the first time.
Glasgow hosts tsunami benefit gig The top names in Scottish music are taking part in a benefit concert in aid of the victims of the Asian tsunami.
Pop band Busted to 'take a break' Chart-topping pop band Busted have confirmed that they plan to "take a break", following rumours that they were on the verge of splitting.
Streets have 'album of the year' The Streets, aka British rapper and songwriter, Mike Skinner have topped a poll to find the year's best album.
Manics in charge of BBC 6 Music The Manic Street Preachers are to take over the helm of BBC digital radio station 6 Music for a week in December.
Media seek Jackson 'juror' notes Reporters covering singer Michael Jackson's trial in California have asked to see questionnaires completed by potential jurors.
Band Aid retains number one spot The charity single by Band Aid 20 has held on the chart top spot for a second week, strengthening its chances of becoming the Christmas number one.
Rap boss arrested over drug find Rap mogul Marion "Suge" Knight has been arrested for violating his parole after he was allegedly found with marijuana.
Elton plays Paris charity concert Sir Elton John has performed at a special concert in Paris to raise money for the victims of the Asian tsunami.
Elvis set to top UK singles chart Rock 'n' roll legend Elvis is set to top the UK singles chart on Sunday, 27 years after his death.
Wal-Mart is sued over rude lyrics The parents of a 13-year-old girl are suing US supermarket giant Wal-Mart over a CD by rock group Evanescence that contains swear words.
Pete Doherty misses bail deadline Singer Pete Doherty will have to spend the weekend in jail because he could not come up with £150,000 bond money for his bail on time.
Rapper Snoop Dogg sued for 'rape' US rapper Snoop Dogg has been sued for $25m (£13m) by a make-up artist who claimed he and his entourage drugged and raped her two years ago.
Legendary music studio to close The New York music studio where John Lennon spent his final hours is to close next month.
Rapper Jay-Z becomes label boss Rap star Jay-Z is to become a record company executive after being put in charge of one of hip-hop's most influential labels, Def Jam.
REM concerts blighted by illness US rock band REM have been forced to cancel concerts after bass player Mike Mills was taken to hospital suffering from "severe flu-like symptoms".
Ring of Fire hit co-writer dies Merle Kilgore, co-writer of the country hit Ring of Fire, has died of congestive heart failure aged 70.
'My memories of Marley...' To mark the 60th anniversary of the birth of reggae star Bob Marley, Rob Partridge - Marley's former head of press at Island Records - remembers the man behind the legend.
Belle named 'best Scottish band' Belle & Sebastian have been named the best Scottish band of all time after a three month-long public poll.
Dance music not dead says Fatboy DJ Norman Cook - aka Fatboy Slim - has said that dance music is not dead, but has admitted it is currently going through a "fallow patch".
Label withdraws McFadden's video The new video of former Westlife singer Brian McFadden has been pulled after a Dublin school complained about being associated with his song Irish Son.
Byrds producer Melcher dies at 62 Record producer Terry Melcher, who was behind hits by the Byrds, Ry Cooder and the Beach Boys, has died aged 62.
Snow Patrol feted at Irish awards Snow Patrol were the big winners in Ireland's top music honours, the Meteor Awards, picking up accolades for best Irish band and album on Thursday.
Doves soar to UK album summit Manchester rock band Doves have entered the UK album chart at number one with their new release, Some Cities.
Downloads enter US singles chart Digital music downloads are being included in the main US singles chart for the first time.
Top gig award for Scissor Sisters New York band Scissor Sisters have won a gig of the year award for their performance at this year's V Festival.
Brits return Keane to number one Brits success has helped return Keane's award-winning album Hopes and Fears back to the top of the UK album chart.
Charity single for quake relief Singers including Sir Cliff Richard and Boy George are recording a charity single to help raise funds for victims of the Asian tsunami.
Franz man seeks government help Franz Ferdinand frontman Alex Kapranos has called for more government help for musicians, while taking part in an Edinburgh Lectures discussion.
Hard act to follow for OutKast US rap duo OutKast's trio of trophies at the MTV Europe Awards crowns a year of huge success for the band.
Sir Paul rocks Super Bowl crowds Sir Paul McCartney wowed fans with a live mini-concert at American football's Super Bowl - and avoided any Janet Jackson-style controversies.
Rock group Korn's guitarist quits The guitarist with US rock band Korn has quit the music business, saying he made the decision after experiencing a religious awakening.
Vibe awards back despite violence The US Vibe awards will be held again next year despite a stabbing which happened during the ceremony.
'Christmas song formula' unveiled A formula for the ultimate Christmas single has been revealed by chart bible British Hit Singles and Albums.
Glastonbury fans to get ID cards Fans who buy tickets for this year's Glastonbury festival will be issued with photo ID cards in an attempt to beat touts, it has been confirmed.
Queen recruit singer for new tour The remaining members of rock band Queen are to go on tour next year with former Free and Bad Company singer Paul Rodgers taking Freddie Mercury's place.
U2 to play at Grammy awards show Irish rock band U2 are to play live at the Grammy Awards presentation in the US next month, organisers have said.
Rock band U2 break ticket record U2 have smashed Irish box office records with ticket sales for their Dublin concerts, after more than 150,000 were sold within 50 minutes.
Police praise 'courageous' Ozzy Rock star Ozzy Osbourne has been praised by police for "very courageously" tackling a burglar who stole jewellery from his house.
New York rockers top talent poll New York electro-rock group The Bravery have come top of the BBC News website's Sound of 2005 poll to find the music scene's most promising new act.
Blair buys copies of new Band Aid Prime Minister Tony Blair purchased two copies of the charity single Band Aid 20 in Edinburgh on Friday.
Eminem beats Elvis to number one Rapper Eminem has denied Elvis his fourth number one of the year, after his song, Like Toy Soldiers, stormed to the top of the singles charts.
Sir Paul rocks Super Bowl crowds Sir Paul McCartney wowed fans with a live mini-concert at American football's Super Bowl - and avoided any Janet Jackson-style controversies.
J-Lo and husband plan debut duet Singers Jennifer Lopez and husband Marc Anthony, a Latin pop star, are to perform a duet at this month's Grammy Awards in Los Angeles.
Beastie Boys win sampling battle US rappers Beastie Boys have won their long-running battle over the use of a sample in their song Pass the Mic.
Pupils to get anti-piracy lessons Lessons on music piracy and copyright issues are to be taught to secondary school pupils in the UK.
Spector facing more legal action Music producer Phil Spector is facing legal action from the mother of the actress he has been accused of killing.
Usher leads Billboard nominations R&B singer Usher is leading the race for the Billboard awards with nominations in 13 categories, including best male.
Eminem secret gig venue revealed Rapper Eminem is to play an intimate gig in London on Saturday, following a show on the River Thames on Friday.
Beatles suits sell for $110,000 Four suits worn by the Beatles on their Please Please Me album cover have sold for $110,00 (£59,000) at a US auction.
OutKast win at MTV Europe Awards US hip-hop duo OutKast have capped a year of award glory with three prizes at the MTV Europe Music Awards in Rome.
Oasis star fined for German brawl Oasis singer Liam Gallagher has been fined 50,000 euros (£35,000) after a fight in a German hotel two years ago.
Disputed Nirvana box set on sale A box set featuring 68 unreleased Nirvana tracks has gone on sale in the US, after years of legal wrangles.
Usher leads Soul Train shortlist Chart-topping R&B star Usher is leading the field at this year's Soul Train Awards, with five nominations.
US charity anthem is re-released We Are The World, the American charity anthem inspired by the success of Band Aid, has been re-issued to raise money for Aids research and tsunami victims.
Queen recruit singer for new tour The remaining members of rock band Queen are to go on tour next year with former Free and Bad Company singer Paul Rodgers taking Freddie Mercury's place.
Band Aid 20 single storms to No 1 The new version of the Band Aid song Do They Know It's Christmas? has gone straight in at number one in the UK singles chart.
iTunes now selling Band Aid song Ipod owners can now download the Band Aid single from iTunes after Apple reached agreement with the charity.
Court halts Mark Morrison album Premiership footballer and record company boss Kevin Campbell has gained a court injunction stopping R&B singer Mark Morrison from releasing an album.
Prince crowned 'top music earner' Prince earned more than any other pop star in 2004, beating artists such Madonna and Elton John in US magazine Rolling Stone's annual list.
Early Elvis recordings go on sale Some of Elvis Presley's earliest recordings - including takes of All Shook Up - are going under the hammer on Sunday at a Los Angeles auction.
Parker's saxophone heads auction A saxophone belonging to legendary jazz musician Charlie Parker is expected to fetch up to $1m (£535,000) at an auction of jazz memorabilia next month.
Comic Morris returns with sitcom Comedian Chris Morris, who created controversial TV show Brass Eye, is to return to screens with a new sitcom about a spoof London media worker.
TV station refuses adoption show A TV station in the US has refused to show a controversial new series where adopted children try and pick their birth father - and win a cash prize.
A-listers flock to Gervais sitcom Hollywood actors Samuel L Jackson and Ben Stiller have signed up for Ricky Gervais' new sitcom, the comedian has told BBC News.
Campaigners attack MTV 'sleaze' MTV has been criticised for "incessant sleaze" by television indecency campaigners in the US.
US actor 'found with gun residue' Actor Robert Blake had gunshot residue on his hands and clothes the night his wife was shot dead, a court has heard.
EastEnders 'is set for US remake' Plans to create a US soap based on the BBC's EastEnders have reportedly been drawn up by the Fox TV network.
US 'to raise TV indecency fines' US politicians are proposing a tough new law aimed at cracking down on indecency and bad language on US TV.
Eurovision 'greats' to do battle Stars of the Eurovision Song Contest from the show's 50-year history are to compete against each other to celebrate the contest's anniversary.
UK TV channel rapped for CSI ad TV channel Five has been criticised for sending "offensive" and "threatening" advertising material to viewers for a new show about murder scene scientists.
X Factor show gets second series TV talent show The X Factor is to return for a second series after being recommissioned by ITV.
Alicia Keys to open US Super Bowl R&B star Alicia Keys is to open February's Super Bowl singing a song only previously performed there by Ray Charles and Vicki Carr.
'Comeback' show for Friends star Friends actress Lisa Kudrow is to play the lead role in a new series about a one-time sitcom star, according to the Hollywood reporter.
Hillbillies singer Scoggins dies Country and Western musician Jerry Scoggins has died in Los Angeles at the age of 93, his family has said.
Branson show flops on US screens Entrepreneur Sir Richard Branson's US TV show, The Rebel Billionaire, is proving a flop in the ratings.
Housewives lift Channel 4 ratings The debut of US television hit Desperate Housewives has helped lift Channel 4's January audience share by 12% compared to last year.
McCririck out of Big Brother show Racing pundit John McCririck has become the latest contestant to be evicted from Celebrity Big Brother.
Chris Evans back on the market Broadcaster Chris Evans has begun selling thousands of his possessions from a stall in Camden Market, London.
Top stars join US tsunami TV show Brad Pitt, Robert De Niro and Hugh Grant have been added to the line-up for a two-hour US TV special to raise money for victims of the Asian tsunami.
Star Trek fans fight to save show Star Trek fans have taken out a full-page ad in the Los Angeles Times in an attempt to persuade TV executives not to scrap Star Trek: Enterprise.
Top of the Pops leaves BBC One The BBC's flagship pop music programme Top of the Pops is to move from BBC One on Fridays to Sundays on BBC Two.
Oscar host Rock to keep it clean Oscar host Chris Rock said he will steer clear of bad language when he fronts the awards on 27 February.
Johnny and Denise lose Passport Johnny Vaughan and Denise Van Outen's Saturday night entertainment show Passport to Paradise will not return to screens, the BBC has said.
Double eviction from Big Brother Model Caprice and Holby City actor Jeremy Edwards have both left the Celebrity Big Brother house in a surprise double eviction on Friday.
Celebrities get their skates on Former England footballer Paul Gascoigne will join EastEnders' actress Scarlett Johnson on BBC One's Strictly Ice Dancing.
Holmes wins '2004 top TV moment' Sprinter Kelly Holmes' Olympic victory has been named the top television moment of 2004 in a BBC poll.
Veteran comic Cyril Fletcher dies Veteran comedian and broadcaster Cyril Fletcher has died aged 91 at his home in Guernsey.
Little Britain vies for TV trophy BBC hits Little Britain and Strictly Come Dancing are among numerous British shows nominated for the prestigious Golden Rose television awards.
Springer criticises Opera musical Talk show host Jerry Springer, whose programme inspired the controversial opera shown by the BBC, has said he would not have written it himself.
CSI shows give 'unrealistic view' People have unrealistic expectations of forensic science thanks to the success of the CSI TV shows, real experts say.
Ethnic producers 'face barriers' Minority ethnic led (Mel) production companies face barriers in succeeding in the film and television industries, research has suggested.
US TV special for tsunami relief A US television network will screen a celebrity TV special to benefit the tsunami relief effort in South Asia.
Gervais writing Simpsons episode The Office's Ricky Gervais is writing an episode of hit US cartoon The Simpsons, following an invitation from its creator Matt Groening.
John Peel replacement show begins The permanent replacement for late DJ John Peel's BBC Radio 1 show goes on air on Tuesday, with three hosts chosen to fill the legendary presenter's slot.
Brookside actress Keaveney dies Actress Anna Keaveney, who appeared in Brookside, My Family and A Touch of Frost, has died of lung cancer aged 55.
&#163;1.8m indecency fine for Viacom Media giant Viacom has paid out $3.5m (£1.8m) to end investigations into indecency in its US radio and TV shows.
Celebrities get to stay in jungle All four contestants still remain in I'm A Celebrity ... Get Me Out Of Here as no evictions were made on the television show on Saturday.
Triple triumph for Little Britain Top TV cult hit Little Britain has triumphed over The Office at the 15th annual British Comedy Awards.
BBC 'should allow more scrutiny' MPs have urged the BBC to give watchdogs more freedom to scrutinise how £2bn in licence fee money is spent.
Greer attacks 'bully' Big Brother Germaine Greer has criticised Celebrity Big Brother's "bullying" of housemates after quitting the reality TV show.
No charges against TV's Cosby US comedian Bill Cosby will not face charges stemming from an allegation of sexual misconduct.
Wife Swap makers sue US 'copycat' The British producers of US Wife Swap are taking legal action against a show they claim is "a blatant and wholescale copycat" of their programme.
Show over for MTV's The Osbournes Rock star Ozzy Osbourne has said his family will not make any more episodes of reality TV show The Osbournes.
Jungle TV show ratings drop by 4m The finale of ITV1's I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here drew an average of 10.9m viewers - about four million fewer than the previous series.
Duran Duran show set for US TV Chart stars Duran Duran are to appear in a VH1 special in the US including interviews and concert footage.
US show sued for rat-eating stunt A US TV network is being sued for $2.5m (£1.3m) by a viewer who says he was disgusted by watching contestants eat dead rats in a stunt show.
Muslim group attacks TV drama 24 A British Muslim group has criticised the new series of US drama 24, which is about to be aired on Sky One, claiming it portrays Islam unfairly.
Brookside creator's Channel 4 bid The creator of defunct TV soap Brookside has written to the culture minister to offer to buy Channel 4.
Little Britain two top comic list Little Britain stars Matt Lucas and David Walliams have been named the most powerful people in TV comedy, in a poll by listings magazine Radio Times.
TV show unites Angolan families Angolan families who are attempting to track each other down, after being separated by nearly 30 years of war, are succeeding thanks to a hugely popular TV show.
Volcano drama erupts on BBC One Supervolcano, a docu-drama about a volcanic eruption in Yellowstone National Park in the US, is among the highlights on the BBC One this winter.
South Bank Awards honour hit soap Coronation Street has become the first soap to triumph at the South Bank Show Awards, which traditionally reward highbrow and groundbreaking culture.
Housewives lift Channel 4 ratings The debut of US television hit Desperate Housewives has helped lift Channel 4's January audience share by 12% compared to last year.
Baywatch dubbed 'worst TV import' Surf show Baywatch has won the title of worst TV import of all time in a poll of UK television executives.
Stern dropped from radio stations Controversial DJ Howard Stern has been dropped from four US radio stations because he keeps promoting his move to a network broadcasting on satellite.
US TV host Clark suffers stroke Veteran US television host Dick Clark is in hospital in Los Angeles after suffering a mild stroke.
New media battle for Bafta awards The BBC leads the nominations for the Bafta Interactive Awards, including one for the Radio Times website and one for Sport Interactive's Euro 2004 coverage.
Bets off after Big Brother 'leak' A bookmaker has stopped taking bets on Celebrity Big Brother after claiming "sensitive information" about the Channel 4 show had been leaked.
School tribute for TV host Carson More than 1,000 people turned out on Sunday to pay tribute to late US TV presenter Johnny Carson in the Nebraska town where he grew up.
Singer Ferguson 'facing eviction' Three Degrees star Sheila Ferguson is the favourite to be evicted from ITV's I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here on Monday.
Farrell due to make US TV debut Actor Colin Farrell is to make his debut on US television in medical sitcom Scrubs, according to Hollywood newspaper Daily Variety.
Stallone evicted from Big Brother Jackie Stallone, mother of actor Sylvester, has become the first star to be evicted from Celebrity Big Brother.
Fox 'too reliant on reality TV' The head of US TV network Fox has admitted the broadcaster had relied too heavily on reality TV shows such as the poor-rating Who's Your Daddy.
George Michael to perform for BBC George Michael is to perform live at London's Abbey Road studios as part of a BBC Radio 2 special next month.
Joy Division story to become film The life of late Joy Division singer Ian Curtis is to be made into a film, it has been announced.
New York rockers top talent poll New York electro-rock group The Bravery have come top of the BBC News website's Sound of 2005 poll to find the music scene's most promising new act.
Aaliyah claim dismissed by court Late R&B star Aaliyah's record company has failed in an attempt to sue the video producer who booked the ill-fated flight on which she died in 2001.
Three DJs replace Peel radio show The late John Peel's BBC Radio 1 show is to be succeeded in February by three shows hosted by three DJs focusing on diverse, non-commercial music.
Connick Jr to lead Broadway show Singer and actor Harry Connick Jr is to star in a Broadway revival of 1950s hit musical The Pajama Game.
Elvis fans hold birthday bash Elvis fans around the world have been marking the legendary singer's 70th birthday on Saturday.
Elvis regains top chart position Elvis Presley has scored his 19th number one single in the UK charts with the re-release of Jailhouse Rock, 27 years after his death.
Pop band Busted to 'take a break' Chart-topping pop band Busted have confirmed that they plan to "take a break", following rumours that they were on the verge of splitting.
Franz Ferdinand's art school lesson Scottish rock band Franz Ferdinand, who shot to prominence in 2004, have won two Brit Awards.
Singer Knight backs anti-gun song R&B star Beverley Knight said she sang on an anti-gun single after being "haunted" by the fatal 2003 shooting of two teenage girls in Birmingham.
Portishead back after eight years Cult British group Portishead have revealed they are writing their third album, their first in eight years.
Fightstar take to the stage Charlie Simpson took his new band Fightstar to the stage on Friday night, just hours after officially announcing his departure from pop band Busted.
Elvis 'set for chart hat-trick' The late US legend Elvis Presley is likely to score his third UK number one single in three weeks on Sunday, according to early sales figures.
Youssou N'Dour wins music prize Senegalese musician Youssou N'Dour has been named a winner of a BBC Radio 3 World Music Award.
TOTP turns to Elvis impersonator Top of the Pops has turned to the star of Elvis Presley musical Jailhouse Rock after the late rock legend scooped the UK's 1,000th number one single.
Blue beat U2 to top France honour Irish band U2 have been honoured at France's biggest music awards, but were beaten to a prize by boy band Blue.
Ten-year tragedy of missing Manic Richey Edwards, guitarist and lyricist for The Manic Street Preachers, vanished 10 years ago, on 1 February 1995. His disappearance remains one of the most tragic mysteries in rock music.
Mogul Wilson backing UK rap band Tony Wilson, the music mogul who established the influential Factory Records in the 1980s, is to launch a new label - convinced he has discovered his "third major band".
Singer Sizzla jailed for swearing Reggae star Sizzla, whose UK tour was cancelled after protests at his "anti-gay" lyrics, has been jailed in Jamaica for swearing on stage.
Spears seeks aborted tour payment Singer Britney Spears is suing eight insurance companies that have refused to reimburse her for cancelling her 2004 world tour.
Deal to ban 'homophobic' reggae The reggae industry is to refuse to release or stage concerts featuring homophobic songs under a global deal struck with gay rights groups.
Soul sensation ready for awards South West teenage singing sensation, Joss Stone, has been nominated in three categories in Wednesday's Brit awards.
Prince crowned 'top music earner' Prince earned more than any other pop star in 2004, beating artists such Madonna and Elton John in US magazine Rolling Stone's annual list.
Brit awards for Devon music acts Devon singer Joss Stone and rock band Muse won coveted Brit awards during the event's 25th anniversary.
Rock star sued by ex-girlfriend Motley Crue guitarist Mick Mars is being sued by his ex-girlfriend for $10 million (£5.4 million), claiming he broke a promise to take care of her.
Scissor Sisters triumph at Brits US band Scissor Sisters led the winners at the UK music industry's Brit Awards, walking off with three prizes. The flamboyant act scored a hat-trick in the international categories, winning the best group, best album and best newcomer awards. Glasgow group Franz Ferdinand won two prizes, as did Keane and Joss Stone, who was voted best urban act by digital TV viewers. Robbie Williams' Angels was named the best song of the past 25 years. Scissor Sisters frontwoman Ana Matronic collected the best international album prize from singer Siouxsie Sioux. She told the audience: "If you told us a year ago we would be getting these awards today we would have called you crazy. You guys made our dream come true."
Jamelia's return to the top R&B star Jamelia had three Brit nominations to go with her triple triumph at last year's Mobo awards.
Cult band Kasabian surge forward Indie dance band Kasabian built up a cult following throughout 2004 to secure three Brit Award nominations.
Brits debate over 'urban' music Joss Stone, a 17-year-old soul singer from Devon, beat Dizzee Rascal, Jamelia, Lemar and The Streets to win best British urban act at the Brit Awards. Her victory has reignited the debate about what urban music is.
Row threatens Hendrix museum plan Proposals to open a museum dedicated to Jimi Hendrix are flailing because of a row over the home of his late father.
No jail for singer Courtney Love Singer Courtney Love has been spared jail for assault and drug offences, but must serve three years probation.
Rapper Kanye West's shrewd soul US hip-hop star Kanye West - who leads the race for this year's Grammys with 10 nominations - rose to prominence by producing songs for artists such as Jay-Z and Alicia Keys.
Singer Christina Aguilera to wed Pop star Christina Aguilera is to marry music executive Jordan Bratman, the singer's agent has confirmed.
Brits return Keane to number one Brits success has helped return Keane's award-winning album Hopes and Fears back to the top of the UK album chart.
U2's desire to be number one U2, who have won three prestigious Grammy Awards for their hit Vertigo, are stubbornly clinging to their status as one of the biggest bands in the world.
Lasting influence of legend Charles Ray Charles, who has won a string of posthumous Grammy Awards, belonged to a pioneering generation of artists that had a huge influence on the course of rock and pop music.
Grammys honour soul star Charles The memory of soul legend Ray Charles dominated the music world's leading music ceremony on Sunday as he was given eight posthumous Grammy Awards.
Abba reunite for musical premiere The original stars of Swedish pop quartet Abba have reunited for the home premiere of hit musical Mamma Mia! which is based on the band's songs.
Help for indies in download sales A campaign has been launched to help independent labels get their music online and benefit from the growing trend for downloading music.
T in the Park sells out in days Tickets for Scotland's biggest music festival have sold out in record time, five months before the event is held.
Black Sabbath top rock album poll Black Sabbath have topped a list of the best British rock albums of all time.
Michael film signals 'retirement' Singer George Michael has said that a new film about his life is the start of a retirement from public view.
Hendrix guitar fetches £100,000 A much-loved guitar belonging to Jimi Hendrix has been sold for £100,000 at an auction in London.
German music in a 'zombie' state The German music business - the third largest in the world - is "in the state of a zombie" because it has failed to respond to the challenge posed by downloading and piracy, a leading industry figure has said.
Musical treatment for Capra film The classic film It's A Wonderful Life is to be turned into a musical by the producer of the controversial hit show Jerry Springer - The Opera.
Famed music director Viotti dies Conductor Marcello Viotti, director of Venice's famous La Fenice Theatre, has died in Germany at 50.
TV presenter Deeley drops CD:UK Cat Deeley has resigned as host of ITV1's Saturday morning children's music show CD:UK after six years.
The Producers scoops stage awards The Producers has beaten Mary Poppins in the battle of the blockbuster West End musicals at the Olivier Awards.
Rocker Doherty in on-stage fight Rock singer Pete Doherty has been involved in a fight with his band's guitarist at their biggest gig to date.
The Sound of Music is coming home The original stage production of The Sound of Music is to be performed for the first time in the Austrian capital, 40 years after the film was released.
Download chart debut is delayed The inclusion of downloaded music in the official singles chart has been delayed for a month.
Rapper films music video in jail A US rapper awaiting trial for murder has filmed part of a music video in jail, angering a sheriff who says he was tricked into letting TV crews in.
Music man to the Oscars Bill Conti's job of musical director of the Oscars show is not for the faint-hearted since conducting the orchestra is the ultimate plate-spinning assignment.
Church urges Nelly show boycott Church ministers are trying to prevent rapper Nelly performing in Arkansas, saying they do not want his "vile and filthy lyrics" in their town.
Rap feud in 50 Cent's G-Unit crew US rap star 50 Cent has said he has thrown protege The Game out of his G-Unit gang in a feud that has apparently involved two shootings.
Prodigy join V Festival line-up Essex act Prodigy are to headline the second stage at this year's V Festival, joining main stage headliners Scissor Sisters and Franz Ferdinand.
DJ double act revamp chart show DJ duo JK and Joel are taking over BBC Radio 1's flagship chart show on Sunday, adding showbiz news, celebrity interviews and between-song banter.
Rapper 50 Cent scores chart first Rapper 50 Cent has become the first solo artist to have three singles in the US top five in the same week.
Goodrem wins top female MTV prize Pop singer Delta Goodrem has scooped one of the top individual prizes at the first Australian MTV Music Awards.
REM announce new Glasgow concert US band REM have announced plans to perform for 10,000 Scottish fans in a rescheduled gig.
Rapper 50 Cent ends protege feud Rapper 50 Cent has ended his public feud with his protege The Game as the pair said they wanted to be good role models for their communities.
Musicians to tackle US red tape Musicians' groups are to tackle US visa regulations which are blamed for hindering British acts' chances of succeeding across the Atlantic.
Angels 'favourite funeral song' Angels by Robbie Williams is the song Britons would most like played at their funeral, a survey has suggested.
U2 stars enter rock Hall of Fame Singer Bruce Springsteen has inducted Irish rock band U2 into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, in New York.
Tough schedule delays Elliot show Preview performances of the £3m musical Billy Elliot have been delayed to give the child actors a less arduous rehearsal schedule.
Singer Ian Brown 'in gig arrest' Former Stone Roses singer Ian Brown was arrested after a fight during a concert in San Francisco on Tuesday, his spokesman has said.
No UK premiere for Rings musical The producers behind the Lord of the Rings musical have abandoned plans to premiere the show in London because no suitable theatre was available.
Dame Julie pops in to see Poppins Mary Poppins star Dame Julie Andrews watched the hit stage version of her classic film at a charity performance in London's West End.
Snow Patrol bassist exits group Snow Patrol had "no other course of action" but to ask their co-founder and bassist to leave the band, lead singer Gary Lightbody has said.
Fockers keeps US box office lead Film comedy Meet The Fockers, sequel to Meet The Parents, has topped the US box office for a third week.
Spider-Man creator wins profits Spider-Man creator Stan Lee is to get a multi-million dollar windfall after winning a court battle with comic book company Marvel.
Fry set for role in Hitchhiker's Actor Stephen Fry is joining the cast of the forthcoming film adaptation of The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy.
Bollywood draws global stars British actress Antonia Bernath is making her debut in Kisna - the Warrior Poet, marking a growing trend for non-Indian stars to appear in Bollywood films.
Hollywood hunts hits at Sundance The Sundance Film Festival, the movie industry's top destination for uncovering the next independent hits and new talent, opens on Thursday.
Actress Roberts takes spider role Actress Julia Roberts will play the part of a spider in a new film version of children's classic Charlotte's Web.
Film production 'falls' 40% in UK The number of British films produced in the UK fell 40% in 2004, with movies starring Johnny Depp and Jude Law among those affected, Screen Daily has said.
Fantasy book wins Hollywood deal A British author has had the film rights to her children's bestseller snapped up for a seven-figure sum, with Ridley Scott set to direct.
The comic book genius of Stan Lee Stan Lee, the man responsible for a string of comic superheroes that have become household names, has won a court battle for a slice of the profits from the hit Spider-Man movies.
Bangkok film festival battles on Organisers of the third Bangkok International Film Festival have been determined to carry on with this year's event despite the ravages of the Asian tsunami disaster.
Carry On star Patsy Rowlands dies Actress Patsy Rowlands, known to millions for her roles in the Carry On films, has died at the age of 71.
Tautou 'to star in Da Vinci film' French actress Audrey Tautou, star of hit film Amelie, will play the female lead in the film adaptation of The Da Vinci Code, it has been reported.
Double win for Sea Inside Spanish movie The Sea Inside has been named best picture and star Javier Bardem best actor at the Bangkok International Film Festival.
BBC denies Blackadder TV comeback The BBC has said there are no plans in the pipeline for a new series of hit comedy Blackadder, which ended in 1989.
Corbett attacks 'dumbed-down TV' Ronnie Corbett has joined fellow comedy stars Victoria Wood and David Jason in attacking the declining standards of British television programmes.
Smith loses US box office crown New comedy Diary of a Mad Black Woman has ended Will Smith's reign at the top of the North American box office.
BBC to pour £9m into new comedy The BBC is to invest £9m in developing new comedy and entertainment programmes outside London.
How the Academy Awards flourished The 77th annual Academy Awards are taking place on 27 February with the stars of the movie-making world once again holding their breath to discover who will be showered with the honours this year. But from humble beginnings, how did the modern day extravaganza become the behemoth it is today?
Hoffman hits out over modern film Hollywood legend Dustin Hoffman has hit out at the quality of current films and theatre productions.
Johnny Depp: The acting outlaw Johnny Depp, whose latest role was Peter Pan creator JM Barrie in Finding Neverland, is celebrated as one of Hollywood's most maverick talents. Depp has become an unlikely major star, given his preference for taking dark and idiosyncratic roles instead of surefire box office hits. He has had a long-running working relationship with the equally unconventional director Tim Burton. Depp was born in Kentucky in 1963 and at first wanted to be a rock star, playing in a number of bands and supporting acts such as Iggy Pop and The B-52s in Florida. On a visit to Los Angeles, his former wife introduced him to actor Nicolas Cage.
Patti Smith to host arts festival Rock star Patti Smith has been made artistic director of this year's Meltdown festival, to be held at London's South Bank Centre in June.
Roxy Music on Isle of Wight bill Roxy Music will appear at June's Isle of Wight music festival, along with Morrissey, Supergrass and Idlewild.
Music mogul Fuller sells company Pop Idol supremo Simon Fuller has sold his 19 Entertainment company to an US entrepreneur in a $156m (£81.5m) deal.
Johnny Cash manager Holiff dies The former manager of Johnny Cash, Saul Israel Holiff, has died at the age of 79, his family said.
UK 'world's biggest music buyer' UK consumers are the biggest music buyers in the world, according to new figures released on Tuesday by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI).
Pixies take on Reading and Leeds Pixies, Foo Fighters and Iron Maiden will headline this summer's Leeds and Reading festivals.
Vera Drake leads UK Oscar hopes Mike Leigh's film Vera Drake will lead British hopes at this year's Academy Awards after getting three nominations.
Moreno debut makes Oscar mark Catalina Sandino Moreno has joined a rare group of actresses who have been nominated for an Oscar for starring in a foreign language film.
Bening makes awards breakthrough Film actress Annette Bening is up for an Oscar for her starring role in the award-winning film Being Julia.
Oscars steer clear of controversy The Oscars nominations list has left out some of the most controversial films of the past year in favour of safer, less contentious cinema.
Kidman wins photographer battle Actress Nicole Kidman has won a restraining order against two paparazzi photographers who she claims left her fearful of leaving her Sydney mansion.
Bookmakers back Aviator for Oscar The Aviator has been tipped by UK bookmakers as the favourite to win the best film award at this year's Oscars.
Van Gogh festival film withdrawn Murdered director Theo van Gogh's controversial film Submission has been pulled from the Rotterdam Film Festival because of security fears.
Douglas set for Indian adventure Actor Michael Douglas is to co-produce and star in an adventure film about a diamond robbery set in India.
Russian film wins BBC world prize Russian drama The Return (Vozvrashchenie) has been named winner of the BBC Four World Cinema Award.
Incredibles win animation awards The Incredibles movie has beaten Shrek 2 to the main prizes at Hollywood's animation awards, the Annies.
Actor Scott is new Bond favourite Bookmaker William Hill has stopped taking bets on who will be the next James Bond, following a succession of large wagers on actor Dougray Scott.
Singer's film to show at festival A documentary which takes a candid look at the life of chart-topping singer George Michael will be shown at this year's Berlin Film Festival.
De Niro film leads US box office Film star Robert De Niro has returned to the top of the North American box office with his film Hide and Seek.
Films on war triumph at Sundance A study of the United States at war in the past 50 years has picked up one of the main awards at the 2005 Sundance Film Festival in Utah, in the US.
Career honour for actor DiCaprio Actor Leonardo DiCaprio's "exceptional career" has been honoured at the Santa Barbara International Film Festival.
Howl helps boost Japan's cinemas Japan's box office received a 3.8% boost last year, with ticket sales worth 211bn yen (£1.08bn).
Keanu Reeves given Hollywood star Actor Keanu Reeves, best known for his role in the Matrix movies, has been awarded a star on the prestigious Hollywood Walk of Fame.
De Niro completes box office coup Robert De Niro has completed a transatlantic box office double by topping the UK and US film charts with two different films at the same time.
Day-Lewis set for Berlin honour Actor Daniel Day-Lewis is to be presented with an award for his career in film at the Berlin Film Festival.
US composer recreates Bach score A US musicologist has recreated a lost musical score by German composer Johann Sebastian Bach.
Applegate's Charity show closes US musical Sweet Charity has cancelled its run on Broadway after poor ticket sales for its early shows.
Ray Charles studio becomes museum A museum dedicated to the career of the late legendary singer Ray Charles is to open in his former recording studio in Los Angeles.
Britney attacks 'false tabloids' Pop star Britney Spears has attacked "false" and "desperate" US tabloid magazines, questioning their honesty after they reported she was pregnant.
Abba queen enters music rich list The woman behind the Abba musical Mamma Mia! has joined a list of British-based music millionaires.
Casino Royale is next Bond movie Casino Royale, author Ian Fleming's first James Bond book, is to be the next Bond film, with Goldeneye director Martin Campbell behind the camera.
Berlin celebrates European cinema Organisers say this year's Berlin Film Festival, which opens on Thursday with period epic Man to Man, will celebrate a revitalised European cinema.
India to deport Bollywood actress India has ordered the deportation of Iranian-born model and actress Negar Khan to Norway after saying she was working illegally on her visa.
Ray DVD beats box office takings Oscar-nominated film biopic Ray has surpassed its US box office takings with a combined tally of $80m (£43m) from DVD and video sales and rentals.
Women in film 'are earning less' Women in the UK film industry earn less than their male counterparts despite being better qualified, according to a study released on Wednesday.
Vera Drake's Bafta triumph hope At the Bafta film awards on Saturday night, there is the prospect that a home-grown movie could walk off with a clutch of trophies.
Roundabout continues nostalgia trip The new big-screen version of The Magic Roundabout, released in the UK on Friday, is the latest attempt to turn children's television into box-office gold.
Stars shine on Bafta red carpet Hollywood stars brought a touch of glamour to London on Saturday for the biggest night in the British film calendar.
Bafta to hand out movie honours Movie stars from across the globe are attending this year's Bafta film award ceremony.
Stars pay tribute to actor Davis Hollywood stars including Spike Lee, Burt Reynolds and Oscar nominee Alan Alda have paid tribute to actor Ossie Davis at a funeral in New York.
Aviator and Vera take Bafta glory Hollywood blockbuster The Aviator and low-budget British movie Vera Drake have shared the main honours at the 2005 Bafta film awards. The Aviator was declared best film, and its star Cate Blanchett won best supporting actress. But Vera Drake scored best director for Mike Leigh while Imelda Staunton took the hotly contested best actress award. Jamie Foxx won best actor for Ray, while British actor Clive Owen took best supporting actor for Closer. The two actors have repeated their success at the Golden Globes in January. But big British hope Kate Winslet walked away empty-handed on Saturday despite two nominations for best actress. Celebrating his win, the Oscar-nominated Owen told reporters: "The whole award season is new to me because I haven't won anything before. All of that is a bit overwhelming." Blanchett, who won a Bafta in 1999 for her leading role in Elizabeth, said: "Winning a Bafta means an enormous amount to me." She thanked the woman she played, Katharine Hepburn, for paving the way for women to work in film. "Thank you very much, I'm sure you're pleased, although you're not able to see this," she said.
Film star Fox behind theatre bid Leading actor Edward Fox is one of the men behind plans to reopen a Swansea theatre thought to be Wales' oldest.
Shark Tale DVD is US best-seller Oscar-nominated animation Shark Tale has raked in $80m (£42.4m) in the first week of its US DVD release becoming the year's best-selling home video so far.
Lopez misses UK charity premiere Jennifer Lopez cancelled an appearance at the UK charity premiere of her new movie saying she was too ill to fly.
Super Size Me wins writers' award Super Size Me director Morgan Spurlock has won the Writers Guild of America's award for documentary feature writing.
Original Exorcist to be screened The original version of horror prequel Exorcist: The Beginning, dropped by producers over claims it was not scary enough, is to have its world premiere.
Oscar nominees lack pulling power This year's clutch of Oscar nominees have been the least popular for 20 years according to box office figures.
Hitch holds on to US box office Will Smith's first romantic comedy, Hitch, has topped the North American box office for a second weekend.
Tarantino to direct CSI episode Film director Quentin Tarantino is to direct an episode of US television series CSI: Crime Scene Investigation.
Bollywood DVD fraudster is jailed A major distributor of pirated DVDs of Bollywood films has been sent to prison for three years.
US 'afflicted' with awards fatigue The film world and media may be wild about the Oscars but cinema-goers and the TV-viewing public are sick of watching award ceremonies, according to some LA film critics.
Critics back Aviator for Oscars Martin Scorsese's The Aviator will win best film at the Oscars, according to the UK's leading movie critics.
Briton wins short film Oscar Three of the five nominees in the live-action short film category at this year's Oscars were British. For Andrea Arnold, who won the category, Ashvin Kumar and Gary McKendry the past month has thrust them from relative obscurity into the limelight.
Sideways dominates Spirit awards The comedy Sideways has dominated this year's Independent Spirit Awards, winning all six of the awards for which it was nominated.
Arnold congratulated on Oscar win Oscar-winner Andrea Arnold has been congratulated by the UK Film Council, the organisation which partly funded her project.
Eastwood's Baby scoops top Oscars Clint Eastwood's Million Dollar Baby beat Martin Scorsese's The Aviator to the top awards at the Oscars on Sunday.
British stars denied major Oscars British hopes of winning major Oscars were dashed as UK stars failed to win acting and directing prizes.
Lee to create new film superhero Comic book veteran Stan Lee is to team up with producer Robert Evans to create a movie featuring a new superhero.
Jackson film 'absolute disaster' A PR expert has told the Michael Jackson child abuse trial that the TV documentary at the heart of the case was an "absolute disaster".
France set for new Da Vinci novel French booksellers are braced for a rush of interest after another book from the author of The Da Vinci Code is translated into French.
UK Directors Guild nominees named Martin Scorsese and Clint Eastwood are among the nominees for the top prize at the Directors Guild of Great Britain awards, now in their second year.
Halloween writer Debra Hill dies Screenwriter and producer Debra Hill, best known for her work on the 70s horror classic Halloween, has died in Los Angeles aged 54.
Tarantino 'to make Friday sequel' Director Quentin Tarantino is in talks to write and direct a new instalment in the Friday the 13th horror franchise, according to the Hollywood Reporter.
Boogeyman takes box office lead The low-budget horror film Boogeyman has knocked Robert de Niro thriller Hide and Seek from the top spot at the UK box office.
Lost Doors frontman movie found Historians in Florida have discovered a 40-year-old clip of a clean-cut Jim Morrison appearing in a promotional film for his university.
Last Star Wars 'not for children' The sixth and final Star Wars movie may not be suitable for young children, film-maker George Lucas has said.
French honour for director Parker British film director Sir Alan Parker has been made an officer in the Order of Arts and Letters, one of France's highest cultural honours.
Robots march to US cinema summit Animated movie Robots has opened at the top of the US and Canada box office chart, taking $36.5m (£19m) on its first weekend on release.
Hobbit picture 'four years away' Lord of the Rings director Peter Jackson has said that it will be up to four years before he starts work on a film version of The Hobbit.
Buffy creator joins Wonder Woman The creator of Buffy the Vampire Slayer is to take on a new female superhero after signing up to write and direct the Wonder Woman movie.
%%%sport
Claxton hunting first major medal British hurdler Sarah Claxton is confident she can win her first major medal at next month's European Indoor Championships in Madrid.
O'Sullivan could run in Worlds Sonia O'Sullivan has indicated that she would like to participate in next month's World Cross Country Championships in St Etienne.
Greene sets sights on world title Maurice Greene aims to wipe out the pain of losing his Olympic 100m title in Athens by winning a fourth World Championship crown this summer.
IAAF launches fight against drugs The IAAF - athletics' world governing body - has met anti-doping officials, coaches and athletes to co-ordinate the fight against drugs in sport.
Dibaba breaks 5,000m world record Ethiopia's Tirunesh Dibaba set a new world record in winning the women's 5,000m at the Boston Indoor Games.
Isinbayeva claims new world best Pole vaulter Yelena Isinbayeva broke her own indoor world record by clearing 4.89 metres in Lievin on Saturday.
O'Sullivan commits to Dublin race Sonia O'Sullivan will seek to regain her title at the Bupa Great Ireland Run on 9 April in Dublin.
Hansen 'delays return until 2006' British triple jumper Ashia Hansen has ruled out a comeback this year after a setback in her recovery from a bad knee injury, according to reports.
Off-colour Gardener storms to win Britain's Jason Gardener shook off an upset stomach to win the 60m at Sunday's Leipzig International meeting.
Collins to compete in Birmingham World and Commonwealth 100m champion Kim Collins will compete in the 60m at the Norwich Union Grand Prix in Birmingham on 18 February.
Radcliffe yet to answer GB call Paula Radcliffe has been granted extra time to decide whether to compete in the World Cross-Country Championships.
Edwards tips Idowu for Euro gold World outdoor triple jump record holder and BBC pundit Jonathan Edwards believes Phillips Idowu can take gold at the European Indoor Championships.
Kenya lift Chepkemei's suspension Kenya's athletics body has reversed a ban on marathon runner Susan Chepkemei after she made an official apology.
McIlroy aiming for Madrid title Northern Ireland man James McIlroy is confident he can win his first major title at this weekend's Spar European Indoor Championships in Madrid.
UK Athletics agrees new kit deal UK Athletics has agreed a new deal with adidas to supply Great Britain squads of all ages with their kit for the next four years.
Verdict delay for Greek sprinters Greek athletics' governing body has postponed by two weeks the judgement on sprinters Costas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou for missing doping tests.
Call for Kenteris to be cleared Kostas Kenteris' lawyer has called for the doping charges against the Greek sprinter to be dropped.
Merritt close to indoor 400m mark Teenager LaShawn Merritt ran the third fastest indoor 400m of all time at the Fayetteville Invitational meeting.
London hope over Chepkemei London Marathon organisers are hoping that banned athlete Susan Chepkemei will still take part in this year's race on 17 April.
Edwards tips Idowu for Euro gold World outdoor triple jump record holder and BBC pundit Jonathan Edwards believes Phillips Idowu can take gold at the European Indoor Championships.
Chepkemei hit by big ban Kenya's athletics body has suspended two-time London Marathon runner-up Susan Chepkemei from all competition until the end of the year.
Holmes secures comeback victory Britain's Kelly Holmes marked her first appearance on home soil since winning double Olympic gold with 1500m victory at the Norwich Union International.
Greek pair attend drugs hearing Greek sprinters Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou have appeared before an independent tribunal which will decide if their bans should stand.
Chepkemei joins Edinburgh line-up Susan Chepkemei has decided she is fit enough to run in next month's Great Edinburgh International Cross Country.
El Guerrouj targets cross country Double Olympic champion Hicham El Guerrouj is set to make a rare appearance at the World Cross Country Championships in France.
Collins appeals against drugs ban Sprinter Michelle Collins has lodged an appeal against her eight-year doping ban with the North American Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).
Holmes feted with further honour Double Olympic champion Kelly Holmes has been voted European Athletics (EAA) woman athlete of 2004 in the governing body's annual poll.
Campbell to extend sprint career Darren Campbell has set his sights on running quicker than ever after deciding not to retire from sprinting.
Isinbayeva heads for Birmingham Olympic pole vault champion Yelena Isinbayeva has confirmed she will take part in the 2005 Norwich Union Grand Prix in Birmingham on 18 February.
2004: An Irish Athletics Year 2004 won't be remembered as one of Irish athletics' great years.
Sprinter Walker quits athletics Former European 200m champion Dougie Walker is to retire from athletics after a series of six operations left him struggling for fitness.
Bekele sets sights on world mark Olympic 10,000m champion Kenenisa Bekele is determined to add the world indoor two mile record at February's Norwich Union Grand Prix in Birmingham.
Greek sprinters suspended by IAAF Greek sprinters Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou have been suspended after failing to take drugs tests before the Athens Olympics.
Athens memories soar above lows Well, it's goodbye to another Olympic year and as usual there were plenty of highs and lows in Athens.
Collins banned in landmark case Sprinter Michelle Collins has received an eight-year ban for doping offences after a hearing at the North American Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).
Jones doping probe begins An investigation into doping claims against Marion Jones has been opened by the International Olympic Committee.
Johnson accuses British sprinters Former Olympic champion Michael Johnson has accused Britain's top sprinters of lacking pride and ambition.
Radcliffe proves doubters wrong This won't go down as one of the greatest marathons of Paula's career. But as a test of character, it was the toughest race she's ever taken part in.
Jones medals 'must go if guilty' World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) chief Dick Pound says Marion Jones should be stripped of all her medals if found guilty of taking banned substances.
Radcliffe tackles marathon tasks Paula Radcliffe faces arguably the biggest test of her career in the New York City Marathon on Sunday.
Gatlin and Hayes win Owen awards American Olympic stars Justin Gatlin and Joanna Hayes have been named the winners of the 2004 Jesse Owens Awards, USA Track & Field's (USATF) top honour.
Radcliffe enjoys winning comeback Paula Radcliffe made a triumphant return to competitive running with victory in the New York Marathon.
Collins named UK Athletics chief UK Athletics has ended its search for a new performance director by appointing psychologist Dave Collins.
White admits to Balco drugs link Banned American sprinter Kelli White says she knowingly took steroids given to her by Bay Area Lab Co-Operative (Balco) president Victor Conte.
Trial date is set for Balco case A US judge has set a preliminary trial date for the Balco steroid distribution case which has rocked athletics.
Radcliffe eyes hard line on drugs Paula Radcliffe has called for all athletes found guilty on drugs charges to be treated as criminals.
Kenteris denies faking road crash Greek sprinter Kostas Kenteris has denied claims that he faked a motorbike crash to avoid a doping test days before the start of the Olympics.
Greek pair set for hearing Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou will fight the provisional two-year bans imposed on them by the IAAF at an independent tribunal this weekend.
Jones files Conte lawsuit Marion Jones has filed a lawsuit for defamation against Balco boss Victor Conte following his allegations that he gave her performance-enhancing drugs.
IAAF awaits Greek pair's response Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou are yet to respond to doping charges from the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF).
IAAF to rule on Greek sprint pair Greek sprinters Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou are expected to find out on Wednesday if they will be banned for missing drugs tests this summer.
Holmes starts 2005 with GB events Kelly Holmes will start 2005 with a series of races in Britain.
Gebrselassie in London triple bid Double Olympic 10,000m champion Haile Gebrselassie will race in the London Marathon for the next three years.
Thanou bullish over drugs hearing Katerina Thanou is confident she and fellow sprinter Kostas Kenteris will not be punished for missing drugs tests before the Athens Olympics.
Holmes is hit by hamstring injury Kelly Holmes has been forced out of this weekend's European Indoor Athletics Championships after picking up a hamstring injury during training.
Kluft impressed by Sotherton form Olympic heptathlon champion Carolina Kluft was full of admiration for Britain's Kelly Sotherton as the pair prepared to clash in Birmingham.
What now for Kelly Holmes? Last April, Kelly Holmes spoke to the BBC Sport website about her loneliness, her fight to stay fit and her decision not to contest both the 800m and 1500m at the Olympics.
Gardener battles to narrow win Jason Gardener fought all the way to the line to narrowly claim the men's 60m title at the Norwich Union Indoor trials and AAAs Championships.
European medal chances improve What have the European Indoor trials told us? Well, I think we could be heading to the European Championships with half a dozen medal prospects.
McIlroy wins 800m indoor title James McIlroy motored to the AAA's Indoor 800m title in Sheffied on Sunday in a time of one minute, 47.97 seconds.
Johnson edges out rival Sotherton Jade Johnson edged out rival Kelly Sotherton with her last effort to claim the AAAs long jump title at the Norwich Union European Indoor trials.
Brizzel to run AAA's in Sheffield Ballymena sprinter Paul Brizzel will be among eight of Ireland's European Indoor hopefuls competing in this weekend's AAA's Championships.
Holmes urged to compete at Worlds Jolanda Ceplak has urged Britain's Kelly Holmes to continue competing at the major championships.
McIlroy continues winning streak James McIlroy stormed to his second international victory in less than a week, claiming the men's 800m at the TEAG indoor meeting in Erfurt.
Radcliffe will compete in London Paula Radcliffe will compete in the Flora London Marathon this year after deciding her schedule for 2005.
Britain boosted by Holmes double Athletics fans endured a year of mixed emotions in 2004 as stunning victories went hand-in-hand with disappointing defeats and more drugs scandals.
Lewis-Francis eyeing world gold Mark Lewis-Francis says his Olympic success has made him determined to bag World Championship 100m gold in 2005.
GB select Holmes for double bid Kelly Holmes has been chosen for both the 800m and 1500m at next month's European Indoor Championships - despite not yet confirming her availability.
Holmes back on form in Birmingham Double Olympic champion Kelly Holmes was back to her best as she comfortably won the 1,000m at the Norwich Union Birmingham Indoor Grand Prix.
Record fails to lift lacklustre meet Yelena Isinbayeva may have produced another world pole vault record, but her achievement could not hide the fact it was not the best meet we have ever seen in Birmingham.
Tomlinson stays focused on Europe Long jumper Chris Tomlinson has cut his schedule to ensure he is fully fit for the European Indoor Championships.
Running around the Olympics It was back to official duties last week in my role as an ambassador to London's 2012 Olympic bid. But I still managed to do all my marathon training.
Johnson uncertain about Euro bid Jade Johnson is undecided about whether to contest next month's European Indoor Championships in Madrid despite winning the AAAs long jump title on Saturday.
Pavey focuses on indoor success Jo Pavey will miss January's View From Great Edinburgh International Cross Country to focus on preparing for the European Indoor Championships in March.
Gardener wins double in Glasgow Britain's Jason Gardener enjoyed a double 60m success in Glasgow in his first competitive outing since he won 100m relay gold at the Athens Olympics.
African double in Edinburgh World 5000m champion Eliud Kipchoge won the 9.2km race at the View From Great Edinburgh Cross Country.
Yelling takes Cardiff hat-trick European cross-country champion Hayley Yelling completed a hat-trick of wins in the Reebok Cardiff Cross Challenge in Bute Park on Sunday afternoon.
Butler strikes gold in Spain Britain's Kathy Butler continued her impressive year with victory in Sunday's 25th Cross Internacional de Venta de Banos in Spain.
Wada will appeal against ruling The World Anti-Doping Agency (Wada) will appeal against the acquittal of Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou on doping charges, if the IAAF does not.
Greek sprinters 'won't run again' The careers of sprinters Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou are over, says the boss of the organisation that cleared them of missing a drugs test.
IAAF will contest Greek decision The International Association of Athletics Federations will appeal against the acquittal of Greek athletes Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou.
Greek duo cleared in doping case Sprinters Kostas Kenteris and Katerina Thanou have been cleared of doping offences by an independent tribunal.
Johnson too strong for GB runners Britain's Kathy Butler and Hayley Yelling were no match for Benita Johnson in the 51st Cross International Zornotza in Amorebieta, Spain.
Holmes starts 2005 with GB events Kelly Holmes will start 2005 with a series of races in Britain.
Tulu to appear at Caledonian run Two-time Olympic 10,000 metres champion Derartu Tulu has confirmed she will take part in the BUPA Great Caledonian Run in Edinburgh on 8 May.
Disappointed Scott in solid start Allan Scott is confident of winning a medal at next week's European Indoor Championships after a solid debut on the international circuit.
GB quartet get cross country call Four British athletes have been pre-selected to compete at the World Cross Country Championships in March after impressive starts to the season.
Jones files lawsuit against Conte Marion Jones has filed a lawsuit for defamation against Balco boss Victor Conte following his allegations that he gave her performance-enhancing drugs.
Thanou desperate to make return Greek sprinter Katerina Thanou says she is eager to compete again after being cleared of missing a drugs test by an independent Greek tribunal.
Relay squad thrilled with honours Jason Gardener says being made an MBE in the New Year Honours List underlines the achievement of Great Britain's 4x100m relay squad at the Olympics.
Balco case trial date pushed back The trial date for the Bay Area Laboratory Cooperative (Balco) steroid distribution case has been postponed.
Collins calls for Chambers return World 100m champion Kim Collins says suspended sprinter Dwain Chambers should be allowed to compete in the Olympics again.
Costin aims for comeback in 2006 Jamie Costin should be paralysed.
Lewis-Francis turns to Christie Mark Lewis-Francis has stepped up his preparations for the new season by taking advice from British sprint icon Linford Christie.
Man Utd stroll to Cup win Wayne Rooney made a winning return to Everton as Manchester United cruised into the FA Cup quarter-finals.
Van Nistelrooy set to return Manchester United striker Ruud van Nistelrooy may make his comeback after an Achilles tendon injury in the FA Cup fifth round tie at Everton on Saturday.
Moyes U-turn on Beattie dismissal Everton manager David Moyes will discipline striker James Beattie after all for his headbutt on Chelsea defender William Gallas.
Ronaldo considering new contract Manchester United winger Cristiano Ronaldo said he is close to agreeing to a new contract at Old Trafford.
Smith keen on Home series return Scotland manager Walter Smith has given his backing to the reinstatement of the Home International series.
Mido makes third apology Ahmed 'Mido' Hossam has made another apology to the Egyptian people in an attempt to rejoin the national team.
Man City 0-2 Man Utd Manchester United reduced Chelsea's Premiership lead to nine points after a scrappy victory over Manchester City.
Gerrard plays down European hopes Steven Gerrard has admitted that Liverpool have little chance of winning the Champions League this season.
Duff ruled out of Barcelona clash Chelsea's Damien Duff has been ruled out of Wednesday's Champions League clash with Barcelona at the Nou Camp.
Chelsea clinch cup in extra-time (after extra-time - score at 90 mins 1-1)
Newcastle 2-1 Bolton Kieron Dyer smashed home the winner to end Bolton's 10-game unbeaten run.
Middlesbrough 2-2 Charlton A late header by teenager Danny Graham earned Middlesbrough a battling draw with Charlton at the Riverside.
Dundee Utd 4-1 Aberdeen Dundee United eased into the semi-final of the Scottish Cup with an emphatic win over Aberdeen.
Clyde 0-5 Celtic Celtic brushed aside Clyde to secure their place in the Scottish Cup semi-final, but only after a nervy and testing first half.
Hearts 2-1 Livingston Hearts wrapped up their Scottish Cup quarter-final tie against Livingston with two goals in the first 10 minutes.
Kenyon denies Robben Barca return Chelsea chief executive Peter Kenyon has played down reports that Arjen Robben will return for the Champions League match against Barcelona.
Bridge could miss rest of season Chelsea left-back Wayne Bridge could miss the rest of the season with a suspected broken ankle.
Parry firm over Gerrard Listen to the full interview on Sport on Five and the BBC Sport website from 1900 GMT.
Wright-Phillips to start on right England coach Sven-Goran Eriksson has revealed Shaun Wright-Phillips will start against the Netherlands.
Robben sidelined with broken foot Chelsea winger Arjen Robben has broken two metatarsal bones in his foot and will be out for at least six weeks.
Giggs handed Wales leading role Ryan Giggs will captain Wales as he wins his 50th cap in Wednesday's friendly against Hungary in Cardiff.
Bosvelt optimistic over new deal Manchester City's Paul Bosvelt will find out "within a month" whether he is to be offered a new one-year deal.
Sociedad set to rescue Mladenovic Rangers are set to loan out-of-favour midfielder Dragan Mladenovic to Real Sociedad, despite the closure of the January transfer window.
Parry relishes Anfield challenge BBC Sport reflects on the future for Liverpool after our exclusive interview with chief executive Rick Parry.
Time to get tough on friendlies? For an international manager, a friendly provides an important opportunity to work with your players.
Barcelona title hopes hit by loss Barcelona's pursuit of the Spanish title took a blow on Sunday as they fell to a 2-0 defeat at home to Atletico Madrid.
Parry puts Gerrard 'above money' Listen to the full interview on Sport on Five and the BBC Sport website from 1900 GMT.
Bees handed potential Man Utd tie Brentford face a home tie against holders Manchester United in the FA Cup sixth round if they can come through their replay against Southampton.
England's defensive crisis grows England's defensive worries have deepened following the withdrawal of Tottenham's Ledley King from the squad to face Holland.
Ferdinand casts doubt over Glazer Rio Ferdinand has said he is unsure of Malcolm Glazer's motives after the American billionaire launched a new offer to buy Manchester United.
Premier League planning Cole date The Premier League is attempting to find a mutually convenient date to investigate allegations Chelsea made an illegal approach for Ashley Cole.
McCall earns Tannadice reprieve Dundee United manager Ian McCall has won a reprieve from the sack, with chairman Eddie Thompson calling for an end to speculation over his future.
Kewell waits as injury drags on Liverpool winger Harry Kewell is struggling to recover from his Achilles tendinitis problem and may not recover until March, claims his agent.
Smith aims to bring back respect Scotland manager Walter Smith says he wants to restore the national team's respectability in world football.
Injury doubts beset Wales squad Wales have a clutch of injury worries before Wednesday's international friendly against Hungary in Cardiff.
Weir poised for Sunderland move Larne's teenage star Robbie Weir is poised to join Sunderland after turning down a move to Stoke City.
Newry to fight cup exit in courts Newry City are expected to discuss legal avenues on Friday regarding overturning their ejection from the Nationwide Irish Cup.
Republic to face China and Italy The Republic of Ireland have arranged friendlies against China and Italy which will take place at Lansdowne Road in March and August.
Finnan says Irish can win group Steve Finnan believes the Republic of Ireland can qualify directly for the World Cup finals.
Irish finish with home game Republic of Ireland manager Brian Kerr has been granted his wish for a home game as the final World Cup qualifier.
Israeli club look to Africa Four African players, including Zimbabwe goalkeeper Energy Murambadoro, are all ready to play for Israeli club Hapoel Bnei Sakhnin in the Uefa Cup.
Iranian misses Israel match Iranian striker Vahid Hashemian will not travel to Israel for Bayern Munich's Champions League match against Maccabi Tel Aviv on Wednesday.
Highbury tunnel players in clear The Football Association has said it will not be bringing charges over the tunnel incident prior to the Arsenal and Manchester United game.
Bellamy under new fire Newcastle boss Graeme Souness has reopened his dispute with Craig Bellamy after claiming the Welshman was "not good enough" for the Magpies. Bellamy left Newcastle to join Celtic on loan after a major row with Souness. Souness - who refused to refer to the 25-year-old by name - said Bellamy did not score enough goals "The chap that's just gone has scored 9.3 goals a season in his time in senior football - half of those weren't even in the top flight," said Souness. "That's not good enough for a striker at a club like this. "We need to have two strikers who are near 20 goals on a regular basis."
Chelsea denied by James heroics A brave defensive display, led by keeper David James, helped Manchester City hold the leaders Chelsea.
Chelsea ridiculed over complaint Barcelona assistant coach Henk Ten Cate has branded Chelsea's expected complaint to Uefa as "pathetic".
Benitez issues warning to Gerrard Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez has ordered captain Steven Gerrard not to play down their Champions League ambitions and be more positive.
Owen determined to stay in Madrid England forward Michael Owen has told the BBC he is happy in Spain and has no plans to quit Real Madrid to return to the Premiership in the near future.
Wenger handed summer war chest Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger has been guaranteed transfer funds to boost his squad the summer.
Souness delight at Euro progress Boss Graeme Souness felt Newcastle were never really in danger of going out of the Uefa Cup against Heerenveen.
Downing injury mars Uefa victory Middlesbrough boss Steve McClaren hopes that Stewart Downing did not seriously damage his hamstring during the 2-1 Uefa Cup win over Graz AK.
Rangers seal Old Firm win Goals from Gregory Vignal and Nacho Novo gave Rangers a scrappy victory at Celtic Park that moves them three points clear of the champions.
SFA awaits report over Mikoliunas The Scottish Football Association is awaiting referee Hugh Dallas's report before acting against Hearts winger Saulius Mikoliunas.
Palace threat over Cantona masks Manchester United fans wearing Eric Cantona masks will not be allowed in Selhurst Park on Saturday.
Legendary Dutch boss Michels dies Legendary Dutch coach Rinus Michels, the man credited with developing "total football", has died aged 77.
Jol joy at 'professional' Cup win Tottenham manager Martin Jol acclaimed his players for their patience in their 3-0 FA Cup fifth-round victory over a determined Nottingham Forest side.
Owen delighted with Real display Michael Owen revelled in his return to the to the Real Madrid starting line-up and inspired a 3-1 win over Real Betis on Wednesday by scoring the first goal.
Ferguson fears Milan cutting edge Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson said his side's task against AC Milan would not be made any easier by the absence of Andriy Shevchenko.
Rush future at Chester uncertain Ian Rush's future as Chester manager is uncertain after he and assistant Mark Aizlewood refused a severance package.
Reyes tricked into Real admission Jose Antonio Reyes has added to speculation linking him with a move from Arsenal to Real Madrid after falling victim to a radio prank.
Benitez joy as Reds take control Liverpool boss Rafael Benitez was satisfied after his team's 3-1 win over Bayer Leverkusen despite conceding a goal in the last minute.
Souness eyes summer move for Owen Newcastle boss Graeme Souness is lining up a summer move for England and Real Madrid striker Michael Owen.
Wenger dejected as Arsenal slump Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger claimed their display in the 3-1 defeat against Bayern Munich was "our worst peformance in the Champions League".
Stam spices up Man Utd encounter AC Milan defender Jaap Stam says Manchester United "know they made a mistake" by selling him in 2001.
Mourinho defiant on Chelsea form Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho has insisted that Sir Alex Ferguson and Arsene Wenger would swap places with him.
Hodgson relishes European clashes Former Blackburn boss Roy Hodgson says the Premiership should follow the rest of Europe and have a winter break - but insists that a gruelling domestic schedule will not damage the English elite's bid for Champions League glory.
Coach Ranieri sacked by Valencia Claudio Ranieri has been sacked as Valencia coach just eight months after taking charge at the Primera Liga club for the second time in his career.
Cole faces lengthy injury lay-off Aston Villa's Carlton Cole could be out for six weeks with a knee injury.
Arsenal through on penalties Arsenal win 4-2 on penalties
Ajax refuse to rule out Jol move Ajax have refused to reveal whether Tottenham's boss Martin Jol is on the Dutch champions' shortlist to become the Amsterdam club's new coach.
Unclear future for striker Baros Liverpool forward Milan Baros is uncertain whether he remains part of boss Rafa Benitez's plans after being dropped for the Carling Cup final.
Prutton poised for lengthy FA ban Southampton's David Prutton faces a possible seven-match ban when he goes before the Football Association.
Robben plays down European return Injured Chelsea winger Arjen Robben has insisted that he only has a 10% chance of making a return against Barcelona in the Champions League.
Adriano's Chelsea link rejected Adriano's agent Gilmar Rinaldi has insisted that he has had no contact with Chelsea over the striker.
FA decides not to punish Mourinho The Football Association will take no action against Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho following his sending-off in Sunday's Carling Cup final.
Aragones angered by racism fine Spain coach Luis Aragones is furious after being fined by The Spanish Football Federation for his comments about Thierry Henry.
Boro suffer Morrison injury blow Middlesbrough midfielder James Morrison has been ruled out for up to eight weeks after an operation on Tuesday.
Mourinho receives Robson warning Sir Bobby Robson has offered Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho some advice on coping under pressure.
QPR keeper Day heads for Preston Queens Park Rangers keeper Chris Day is set to join Preston on a month's loan.
Cudicini misses Carling Cup final Chelsea goalkeeper Carlo Cudicini will miss Sunday's Carling Cup final after the club dropped their appeal against his red card against Newcastle.
Beattie return calms attack fears Everton striker James Beattie has been declared fit for training on Tuesday, despite suffering an alleged assault last Saturday.
Keegan hails comeback king Fowler Manchester City boss Kevin Keegan has praised striker Robbie Fowler for his landmark return to form.
Thompson says Gerrard should stay Liverpool legend Phil Thompson has pleaded with Steve Gerrard to reject any overtures from Chelsea.
Cole refuses to blame van Persie Ashley Cole has refused to blame Robin van Persie for leaving Arsenal with no fully-fit strikers for the FA Cup fifth round replay at Sheffield United.
Blackburn v Burnley Ewood Park
Brentford v Southampton Griffin Park
Desailly backs Blues revenge trip Marcel Desailly insists there is no chance of history repeating itself when Chelsea take on Barcelona on Wednesday.
Desailly backs Blues revenge trip Marcel Desailly insists there is no chance of history repeating itself when Chelsea take on Barcelona on Wednesday.
Mourinho expects fight to finish Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho expects the Champions League clash with Barcelona to be a fight to the finish.
Cup holders Man Utd visit Everton Holders Manchester United and Premiership leaders Chelsea both face difficult away ties against Premiership opposition in the FA Cup fifth round.
Candela completes Bolton switch Bolton boss Sam Allardyce has signed Roma defender Vincent Candela on a five-month deal.
Stuart joins Norwich from Addicks Norwich have signed Charlton midfielder Graham Stuart until the end of the season for an undisclosed fee.
Celtic make late bid for Bellamy Newcastle striker Craig Bellamy is discussing a possible short-term loan move to Celtic, BBC Sport understands.
Campbell lifts lid on United feud Arsenal's Sol Campbell has called the rivalry between Manchester United and the Gunners "bitter and personal".
Rovers reject third Ferguson bid Blackburn have rejected a third bid from Rangers for Scotland captain Barry Ferguson, BBC Sport has learnt.
SA return to Mauritius Top seeds South Africa return to the scene of one of their most embarrassing failures when they face the Seychelles in the Cosafa Cup next month.
Tottenham bid &#163;8m for Forest duo Nottingham Forest have confirmed they have received an £8m bid from Tottenham for Andy Reid and Michael Dawson.
Redknapp's Saints face Pompey tie New Southampton manager Harry Redknapp faces an immediate reunion with his old club Portsmouth after they were drawn together in the FA Cup fourth round.
Real in talks over Gravesen move Real Madrid are closing in on a £2m deal for Everton's Thomas Gravesen after the Dane's agent travelled to Spain to hold talks about a move.
Klinsmann issues Lehmann warning Germany coach Jurgen Klinsmann has warned goalkeeper Jens Lehmann he may have to quit Arsenal to keep his World Cup dreams alive.
Juninho demand for O'Neill talks Juninho's agent has confirmed that the player is hoping for talks with Martin O'Neill as the Brazilian midfielder comes closer to departing Celtic.
Wenger signs new deal Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has signed a new contract to stay at the club until May 2008.
FA probes crowd trouble The FA is to take action after trouble marred Wednesday's Carling Cup tie between Chelsea and West Ham.
Edu describes tunnel fracas Arsenal's Edu has lifted the lid on the scenes that followed Manchester United's win over the Gunners.
Chelsea sack Mutu Chelsea have sacked Adrian Mutu after he failed a drugs test.
Ferguson urges Henry punishment Sir Alex Ferguson has called on the Football Association to punish Arsenal's Thierry Henry for an incident involving Gabriel Heinze.
Wenger offers Mutu hope Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger would consider signing Adrian Mutu once the striker has served his drugs ban.
Santini resigns as Spurs manager Tottenham manager Jacques Santini has resigned for "personal reasons".
Mutu to hold talks with Juventus Disgraced former Chelsea striker Adrian Mutu is to begin talks with Juventus as he looks for a new club.
Uefa approves fake grass Uefa says it will allow European matches to be played on artificial pitches from the start of next season.
Yeading face Newcastle in FA Cup Premiership side Newcastle United face a trip to Ryman Premier League leaders Yeading in the FA Cup third round.
Anelka 'eyes Man City departure' Striker Nicolas Anelka reportedly wants to leave Manchester City in search of Champions League football.
Arnesen denies rift with Santini Tottenham sporting director Frank Arnesen has denied that coach Jacques Santini resigned because of a clash of personalities at White Hart Lane.
Souness backs Smith for Scotland Graeme Souness believes Walter Smith would be the perfect choice to succeed Berti Vogts as Scotland manager.
Gallas sees two-horse race Chelsea's William Gallas believes they will battle it out with Arsenal for the Premiership in the coming months.
Tevez - an Argentine in Brazil Some 65 years ago Bernardo Gandulla left Boca Juniors in his native Argentina and headed for Brazil.
Edu blasts Arsenal Arsenal's Brazilian midfielder Edu has hit out at the club for stalling over offering him a new contract.
Can Smith work Scottish wonders? The worst kept secret in Scottish football was revealed on Thursday when Walter Smith was named as the new national manager.
Jansen suffers a further setback Blackburn striker Matt Jansen faces three weeks out after surgery to treat a cartilage problem.
Mansfield 0-1 Leyton Orient An second-half goal from Andy Scott condemned Mansfield to a ninth successive game without a win.
Zambia confident and cautious Zambia's technical director, Kalusha Bwalya is confident and cautious ahead of the Cosafa Cup final against Angola on Saturday in Lusaka.
Reaction from Spanish press England's 1-0 defeat to Spain on Wednesday dominated the back and front pages of the country's press on Thursday.
Kerr frustrated at victory margin Republic of Ireland manager Brian Kerr admitted he was frustrated his side did not score more than one goal in their friendly win over Croatia.
Mourinho plots impressive course Chelsea's win at Fulham - confirming their position at the Premiership summit - proves that they now have everything in place to mount serious challenges on all fronts this season.
Hearts of Oak 3-2 Cotonsport Hearts of Oak set up an all Ghanaian Confederation Cup final with a 3-2 win over Cameroon's Cotonsport Garoua in Accra on Sunday.
Curbishley delight for Johansson Charlton manager Alan Curbishley paid tribute to two-goal striker Jonatan Johansson after beating Norwich.
Lennon brands Rangers favourites Celtic's Neil Lennon admits Rangers could be considered "slight favourites" for the Old Firm CIS Cup clash, but insists his side can still win.
McClaren hails Boro's Uefa spirit Middlesbrough boss Steve McClaren has praised the way his side have got to grips with European football after the 2-0 Uefa Cup win against Lazio.
Benitez delight after crucial win Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez admitted victory against Deportivo La Coruna was vital in their tight Champions League group.
Bristol City 2-1 Milton Keynes Leroy Lita took his goal tally to 13 for the season as his double earned City an LDV Vans Trophy win.
Hereford 1-1 Doncaster Hereford win 3-1 on penalties.
Wolves appoint Hoddle as manager Glenn Hoddle will be unveiled as the new Wolves manager on Tuesday.
Wenger keeping faith with Almunia Arsene Wenger has pledged to keep faith with stand-in keeper Manuel Almunia for the crunch week which could define Arsenal's season.
Houllier praises Benitez regime Former Liverpool manager Gerard Houllier has praised the work of his Anfield successor Rafael Benitez.
McClaren targets Champions League Middlesbrough boss Steve McClaren believes his side can clinch a top-four spot in the Premiership and secure qualification for the Champions League.
Hitzlsperger waiting on O'Leary Aston Villa's Thomas Hitzlsperger is waiting to learn the future of manager David O'Leary before committing himself to a new contract with the club.
Mourinho to escape FA charge Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho will not face any Football Association action over the comments he made after their Carling Cup tie with Manchester United.
Wolves appoint Hoddle as manager Glenn Hoddle has been unveiled as the new Wolves manager.
Redknapp poised for Saints Southampton are set to unveil Harry Redknapp as their new manager at a news conference at 1500 GMT on Wednesday.
FA charges Liverpool and Millwall Liverpool and Millwall have been charged by the Football Association over crowd trouble during their Carling Cup match on 26 October.
Wenger steps up row Arsene Wenger has stepped up his feud with Sir Alex Ferguson by claiming the Manchester United manager is guilty of bringing football into disrepute.
Liverpool revel in night of glory Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez said their qualification for the next stage of the Champions League was "one of the proudest nights of my career."
English clubs make Euro history All four of England's Champions League representatives have reached the knockout stages for the first time.
Ferguson puts faith in youngsters Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson said he has no regrets after his second-string side lost 3-0 away at Fenerbahce in the Champions League.
Beckham relief as Real go through David Beckham expressed his relief at Real Madrid's passage to the Champions League knockout phase.
Man Utd through after Exeter test Manchester United avoided an FA Cup upset by edging past Exeter City in their third round replay.
Hamm bows out for US Women's football legend Mia Hamm has played her final game.
Wenger rules out new keeper Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger says he has no plans to sign a new goalkeeper during the January transfer window.
Liverpool pledge to keep Gerrard Liverpool chief executive Rick Parry insists the club will never sell Steven Gerrard amid reports Chelsea will renew their bid to lure him from Anfield.
Pearce keen on succeeding Keegan Joint assistant boss Stuart Pearce has admitted he would like to succeed Kevin Keegan as manager at Manchester City.
Bomb threat at Bernabeu stadium Spectators were evacuated from Real Madrid's Bernabeu stadium on Sunday following a bomb scare during the game between the hosts and Real Sociedad.
Chelsea hold Arsenal A gripping game between Arsenal and Chelsea ended with the honours finishing even at Highbury.
Real will finish abandoned match Real Madrid and Real Socieded will play the final six minutes of their match, which was abandoned on Sunday because of a bomb scare.
Poll explains free-kick decision Referee Graham Poll said he applied the laws of the game in allowing Arsenal striker Thierry Henry's free-kick in Sunday's 2-2 draw with Chelsea.
Solskjaer raises hopes of return Manchester United striker Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said he hoped to return next season following a career-threatening injury to his right knee.
Dunne keen to commit to Man City Richard Dunne is ready to commit his long-term future to Manchester City after turning his career around.
Bates seals takeover Ken Bates has completed his takeover of Leeds United.
Ferguson rues failure to cut gap Boss Sir Alex Ferguson was left ruing Manchester United's failure to close the gap on Chelsea, Everton and Arsenal after his side's 1-1 draw with Fulham.
Old Firm pair handed suspensions Celtic's Henri Camara and Nacho Novo of Rangers have both been suspended for offences missed by the referee in a recent Old Firm game.
Anelka apologises for criticism Manchester City striker Nicolas Anelka has issued an apology for criticising the ambitions of the club.
Ferguson rues failure to cut gap Boss Sir Alex Ferguson was left ruing Manchester United's failure to close the gap on Chelsea, Everton and Arsenal after his side's 1-1 draw with Fulham.
Everton's Weir cools Euro hopes Everton defender David Weir has played down talk of European football, despite his team lying in second place in the Premiership after beating Liverpool.
Spain coach faces racism inquiry Spain's Football Federation has initiated disciplinary action against national coach Luis Aragones over racist comments about Thierry Henry.
Spain coach faces racism inquiry Spain's Football Federation has initiated disciplinary action against national coach Luis Aragones over racist comments about Thierry Henry.
Benitez deflects blame from Dudek Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez has refused to point the finger of blame at goalkeeper Jerzy Dudek after Portsmouth claimed a draw at Anfield.
Bellamy fined after row Newcastle have fined their Welsh striker Craig Bellamy two weeks' wages - about £80,000 - following his row with manager Graeme Souness.
McClaren eyes Uefa Cup top spot Steve McClaren wants his Middlesbrough team to win their Uefa Cup group by beating Partizan Belgrade.
Spurs to sign Iceland U21 star Tottenham are primed to snap up Iceland Under-21 international Emil Hallfredsson after he impressed on trial at White Hart Lane.
McLeish ready for criticism Rangers manager Alex McLeish accepts he is going to be criticised after their disastrous Uefa Cup exit at the hands of Auxerre at Ibrox on Wednesday.
O'Leary agrees new Villa contract Aston Villa boss David O'Leary signed a three-and-a-half year contract extension on Thursday, securing his future at the club until summer 2008.
Gronkjaer agrees switch to Madrid Jesper Gronkjaer has agreed a move to Atletico Madrid from Birmingham City.
Benitez 'to launch Morientes bid' Liverpool may launch an £8m January bid for long-time target Fernando Morientes, according to reports.
Robertson out to retain Euro lure Hearts manager John Robertson hopes a place in the knock-out stages of the Uefa Cup could help keep some of his out-of-contract players at the club.
Campbell rescues Arsenal Sol Campbell proved to be an unlikely match-winner to earn Arsenal a hard-fought win at Portsmouth.
Reds sink 10-man Magpies Titus Bramble's own goal put Liverpool on the comeback trail as injury-hit Newcastle were well beaten at Anfield.
Strachan turns down Pompey Former Southampton manager Gordon Strachan has rejected the chance to become Portsmouth's new boss.
Henry tipped for Fifa award Fifa president Sepp Blatter hopes Arsenal's Thierry Henry will be named World Player of the Year on Monday.
Newcastle to join Morientes race Newcastle have joined the race to sign Real Madrid striker Fernando Morientes and scupper Liverpool's bid to snap up the player, according to reports.
Blues slam Blackburn over Savage Birmingham have confirmed Blackburn made a bid for Robbie Savage - but managing director Karen Brady has called it "derisory".
Gerrard happy at Anfield Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard has reiterated his desire to stay at Anfield and win trophies with the club.
Beckham rules out management move Real Madrid midfielder David Beckham has no plans to become a manager when his playing career is over.
Mexicans tracking unhappy Juninho Mexican outfit Red Sharks Veracruz hope to sign Juninho if the Brazilian decides to leave Celtic frustrated at his lack of first-team action.
Celtic unhappy over Bulgaria date Martin O'Neill hopes to block Stilian Petrov's call-up by Bulgaria during Celtic's busy festive programme.
Robben and Cole earn Chelsea win Cheslea salvaged a win against a battling Portsmouth side just as it looked like the Premiership leaders would have to settle for a point.
Newcastle line up Babayaro Newcastle manager Graeme Souness is closing in on signing Chelsea defender Celestine Babayaro when the transfer window reopens.
Mourinho takes swipe at Arsenal Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho has attempted to pile the pressure on title rivals Arsenal ahead of the Gunners facing Newcastle on Wednesday.
Wenger shock at Newcastle dip Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has admitted he is at a loss to explain why Newcastle are languishing in the bottom half of the table.
Ferguson hails Man Utd's resolve Manchester United's Alex Ferguson has praised his players' gutsy performance in the 1-0 win at Aston Villa.
TV calls after Carroll error Spurs boss Martin Jol said his team were "robbed" at Manchester United after Pedro Mendes' shot clearly crossed the line but was not given.
Hodgson shoulders England blame Fly-half Charlie Hodgson admitted his wayward kicking played a big part in England's 18-17 defeat to France.
Vickery out of Six Nations England tight-head prop Phil Vickery has been ruled out of the rest of the 2005 RBS Six Nations after breaking a bone in his right forearm.
Yachvili savours France comeback France scrum-half Dimitri Yachvili praised his team after they fought back to beat England 18-17 in the Six Nations clash at Twickenham.
Laporte tinkers with team France coach Bernard Laporte has made four changes to the starting line-up that beat England for Saturday's Six Nations clash with Wales.
Lewsey puzzle over disallowed try England's Josh Lewsey has claimed he was denied a late try in his side's Six Nations loss to Ireland.
Fuming Robinson blasts officials England coach Andy Robinson insisted he was "livid" after his side were denied two tries in Sunday's 19-13 Six Nations loss to Ireland in Dublin.
O'Gara revels in Ireland victory Ireland fly-half Ronan O'Gara hailed his side's 19-13 victory over England as a "special" win.
Thomas out of Six Nations Wales captain Gareth Thomas has been ruled out of the rest of the Six Nations with a broken thumb.
Wales coach elated with win Mike Ruddock paid tribute to his Wales side after they came from 15-6 down to beat France 24-18 in the Six Nations.
Newcastle 27-27 Gloucester Newcastle centre Mathew Tait answered his critics as he scored one try and made another, but he could not stop Gloucester grabbing a draw.
London Irish 19-33 Wasps Wasps made light of the absence of several internationals to sink London Irish with a trio of second-half tries.
Murray returns to Scotland fold Euan Murray has been named in the Scotland training squad after an eight-week ban, ahead of Saturday's Six Nations match with Ireland.
Fear will help France - Laporte France coach Bernard Laporte believes his team will be scared going into their game with England on Sunday, but claims it will work in their favour.
Davies favours Gloucester future Wales hooker Mefin Davies is likely to stay with English side Gloucester despite reported interest from the Neath-Swansea Ospreys.
Ref stands by Scotland decisions The referee from Saturday's France v Scotland Six Nations match has defended the officials' handling of the game after criticism by Matt Williams.
Robinson ready for difficult task England coach Andy Robinson faces the first major test of his tenure as he tries to get back to winning ways after the Six Nations defeat by Wales.
Bell set for England debut Bath prop Duncan Bell has been added to England's 30-man squad to face Ireland in the RBS Six Nations.
O'Sullivan quick to hail Italians Ireland coach Eddie O'Sullivan heaped praise on Italy after seeing his side stutter to a 28-17 victory in Rome.
Italy 17-28 Ireland Two moments of magic from Brian O'Driscoll guided Ireland to a workmanlike victory against Italy.
Jones happy with Henson heroics Wales fly-half Stephen Jones admitted he was happy to hand Gavin Henson responsibility for taking the match-winning kick against England.
Double injury blow strikes Wales Wales centre Sonny Parker and number eight Ryan Jones will miss Saturday's game with Italy because of injury.
Kirwan demands Italy consistency Italy coach John Kirwan has challenged his side to match the performance they produced in pushing Ireland close when they meet Wales on Saturday.
Fit-again Betsen in France squad France have brought flanker Serge Betsen back into their squad to face England at Twickenham on Sunday.
Wales critical of clumsy Grewcock Wales coach Mike Ruddock says England lock Danny Grewcock needs to review his actions after he kicked Dwayne Peel.
Henson stakes early Lions claim The Six Nations may be a glittering prize in itself but every player from the four Home Unions will also have one eye on a possible trip to New Zealand with the Lions this summer.
Murphy: That was a bruising battle That's what I call a tough game. It was very physical and fair play to the Italians they made us work very hard for our victory.
Wales make two changes for France Wales coach Mike Ruddock has made two changes from the team that beat Italy 38-8 for Saturday's trip to France.
Ireland surge past Scots Ireland maintained their Six Nations Grand Slam ambitions with an impressive victory over Scotland at Murrayfield.
Wales win in Rome Wales secured their first away win in the RBS Six Nations for nearly four years with a six-try victory in Rome.
White prepared for battle Tough-scrummaging prop Julian White is expecting a resurgent Wales to give him a rough ride in England's Six Nations opener in Cardiff on Saturday.
O'Driscoll saves Irish blushes Two moments of magic from Brian O'Driscoll guided Ireland to a workmanlike victory against Italy.
Barkley fit for match in Ireland England centre Olly Barkley has been passed fit for Sunday's Six Nations clash with Ireland at Lansdowne Road.
Wales stars need a rest - Ruddock Wales coach Mike Ruddock has defended his decision not to release any of the international stars for this weekend's regional Celtic League fixtures.
Munster Cup tie switched to Spain Munster's Heineken Cup quarter-final tie against Biarritz on 3 April has been switched to Real Sociedad's Paseo de Anoeta stadium in San Sebastian.
Williams says he will never quit Defiant Matt Williams says he will not quit as Scotland coach even if his side slump to a new low with defeat by Italy at Murrayfield.
Pountney handed ban and fine Northampton coach Budge Pountney has been fined £2,000 and banned from match-day coaching for six weeks for calling a referee "a disgrace".
France v Wales (Sat) Stade de France, Paris
Woodward eyes Brennan for Lions Toulouse's former Irish international Trevor Brennan could be one of Clive Woodward's many surprises when the 44-man Lions tour squad is announced.
Scotland v Italy (Sat) Murrayfield, Edinburgh
Preview: Ireland v England (Sun) Lansdowne Road, Dublin
Leeds v Saracens (Fri) Headingley
Worcester v Sale (Fri) Sixways
Robinson answers critics England captain Jason Robinson has rubbished suggestions that the world champions are a team in decline.
Sella wants Michalak recall Former France centre Philippe Sella believes coach Bernard Laporte must recall Frederic Michalak to give his side any chance of beating Ireland.
Umaga ready for Lions All Blacks captain Tama Umaga has warned the British and Irish Lions will be his most fearsome opponents yet ahead of their summer tour.
Umaga ready for "fearsome" Lions All Blacks captain Tama Umaga has warned the British and Irish Lions will be his most fearsome opponents yet ahead of their summer tour.
Campese berates whingeing England Former Australian wing David Campese has told England to stop whingeing in the wake of their defeat to Ireland.
O'Driscoll/Gregan lead Aid stars Ireland's Brian O'Driscoll will lead the Northern Hemisphere team in the IRB Rugby Aid match at Twickenham.
Harinordoquy suffers France axe Number eight Imanol Harinordoquy has been dropped from France's squad for the Six Nations match with Ireland in Dublin on 12 March.
Parker misses England clash Tom Shanklin will start in the centre for Wales against England in Cardiff on Saturday after Sonny Parker failed to recover from a trapped neck nerve.
Stevens named in England line-up England have named Bath prop Matt Stevens in the starting line-up for their Six Nations match against Ireland at Lansdowne Road on Sunday.
Bortolami predicts dour contest Italy skipper Marco Bortolami believes Saturday's Six Nations contest against Scotland will be a scrappy encounter.
Corry backs skipper Robinson England forward Martin Corry says Jason Robinson is the right man to lead the national team back to winning ways.
Prop Jones ready for hard graft Adam Jones says the Wales forwards are determined to set the perfect attacking platform for the backs by dominating the powerful France pack in Paris.
Moody joins up with England Lewis Moody has flown to Dublin to join England's camp ahead of their RBS Six Nations game against Ireland on Sunday.
Captains lining up for Aid match Ireland's Brian O'Driscoll is one of four Six Nations captains included in the Northern Hemisphere squad for the IRB Rugby Aid match on 5 March.
Castaignede fires Laporte warning Former France fly-half Thomas Castaignede has warned the pressure is mounting on coach Bernard Laporte following their defeat by Wales.
Charvis set to lose fitness bid Flanker Colin Charvis is unlikely to play any part in Wales' final two games of the Six Nations.
Robinson out of Six Nations England captain Jason Robinson will miss the rest of the Six Nations because of injury.
England coach faces rap after row England coach Andy Robinson is facing disciplinary action after criticising referee Jonathan Kaplan in his side's Six Nations defeat to Ireland.
Harinordoquy suffers France axe Number eight Imanol Harinordoquy has been dropped from France's squad for the Six Nations match with Ireland in Dublin on 12 March.
Wilkinson return 'unlikely' Jonny Wilkinson looks set to miss the whole of the 2005 RBS Six Nations.
England 'to launch ref protest' England will protest to the International Rugby Board (IRB) about the referee's performance in the defeat by Ireland, reports the Daily Mail.
Moore questions captaincy Brian Moore believes the England captain should not be a full-back.
Owen set for skipper role Wales number eight Michael Owen says replacing Gareth Thomas as Wales' captain will be straightforward because of the leadership quality in the squad.
Italy aim to rattle England Italy coach John Kirwan believes his side can upset England as the Six Nations wooden spoon battle hots up.
Dal Maso in to replace Bergamasco David dal Maso has been handed the task of replacing the injured Mauro Bergamasco at flanker in Italy's team to face Scotland on Saturday.
Teenager Tait picked for England Newcastle's teenage centre Mathew Tait has been named as a centre in England's team to face Wales in the Six Nations opener in Cardiff on Saturday.
Wood - Ireland can win Grand Slam Former captain Keith Wood believes Ireland can win only their second Grand Slam - and first since 1948 - in this year's RBS Six Nations Championship.
Scots suffer another injury blow Scotland's back row crisis has worsened ahead of the RBS Six Nations with news that Scott Gray will miss out on the opening matches.
O'Sullivan keeps his powder dry When you are gunning for glory and ultimate success keeping the gunpowder dry is essential.
Wales get Williams fitness boost Wales are hopeful that openside flanker Martyn Williams could be fit for Saturday's RBS 6 Nations championship opener against England in Cardiff.
Dawson joins England injury list Scrum-half Matt Dawson is an injury doubt for England's Six Nations opener against Wales next weekend.
Wales want rugby league training Wales could follow England's lead by training with a rugby league club.
Saint-Andre anger at absent stars Sale Sharks director of rugby Philippe Saint-Andre has re-opened rugby's club-versus-country debate.
Ruddock backs Yapp's credentials Wales coach Mike Ruddock says John Yapp has what it takes as an international.
Player burn-out worries Robinson England coach Andy Robinson says English rugby has to act now to prevent injury destroying players' careers.
Hodges announces rugby retirement Scarlets and USA Eagles forward Dave Hodges has ended his playing career to pursue a coaching role in the States.
Funding cut hits Wales Students The Wales Students rugby side has become a casualty of the Welsh Rugby Union's reorganisation at youth level.
Calder fears for Scottish rugby Former Scotland international Finlay Calder fears civil war at the SRU could seriously hamper his country's RBS Six Nations campaign.
A year to remember for Irish There used to be one subliminal moment during a year in Irish rugby that stood out more than most.
Williams stays on despite dispute Matt Williams insists he has no thoughts of quitting as national coach as a result of the power struggle currently gripping Scottish rugby.
Lomu relishing return to action Former All Black star Jonah Lomu says he cannot wait to run out on the pitch for former England rugby union captain Martin Johnson's testimonial on 4 June.
Johnson announces June retirement Former England captain Martin Johnson has announced he is to retire from rugby union at the end of the season.
A November to remember Last Saturday, one newspaper proclaimed that England were still the number one side in the world.
South Africa sweep top awards South Africa's Schalk Burger was named player of the year as the Tri-Nations champions swept the top honours at the International Rugby Board's awards.
Robinson wants dual code success England rugby union captain Jason Robinson has targeted dual code success over Australia on Saturday.
All Black magic: New Zealand rugby Playing colours:
WRU proposes season overhaul The Welsh Rugby Union wants to restructure the Northern Hemisphere season into four separate blocks.
Wilkinson to lead England Fly-half Jonny Wilkinson has been named as England's new rugby union captain for the three November Tests.
Hong Kong in 2011 World Cup bid Hong Kong is hoping to join Japan as co-host of the 2011 Rugby World Cup.
Dallaglio his own man to the end Controversy and Lawrence Dallaglio have never been very far away from each other throughout a glittering international career.
Wasps 31-37 Leicester Leicester withstood a stunning Wasps comeback to win a pulsating Heineken Cup encounter at the Causeway Stadium.
Ireland 17-12 South Africa Ronan O'Gara scored all Ireland's points as the home side claimed only their second ever win over South Africa on an emotional day at Lansdowne Road.
Ireland v USA (Sat) Saturday 20 November
Ireland call up uncapped Campbell Ulster scrum-half Kieran Campbell is one of five uncapped players included in Ireland's RBS Six Nations squad.
Ireland 21-19 Argentina An injury-time dropped goal by Ronan O'Gara stole victory for Ireland from underneath the noses of Argentina at Lansdowne Road on Saturday.
England claim Dubai Sevens glory England beat Fiji 26-21 in a dramatic final in Dubai to win the first IRB Sevens event of the season.
Barbarians 19-47 New Zealand New Zealand proved too strong for an Australian-dominated Barbarians to round off their unbeaten northern hemisphere tour with an easy win.
Dawson wins England squad recall Wasps scrum-half Matt Dawson has been recalled to England's training squad ahead of the RBS Six Nations and been reinstated in the Elite Player Squad.
Borders 19-20 Ulster Ulster clung on for a morale-boosting Celtic League win over bottom club Borders at Netherdale on Friday night.
Lions blow to World Cup stars British and Irish Lions coach Clive Woodward says he is unlikely to select any players not involved in next year's RBS Six Nations Championship.
Campbell to be Lions consultant Former government communications chief Alastair Campbell will act as a media consultant to Sir Clive Woodward's 2005 Lions on their tour to New Zealand.
Lions blow to World Cup winners British and Irish Lions coach Clive Woodward says he is unlikely to select any players not involved in next year's RBS Six Nations Championship.
Wilkinson fit to face Edinburgh England captain Jonny Wilkinson will make his long-awaited return from injury against Edinburgh on Saturday.
Dallaglio eyeing Lions tour place Former England captain Lawrence Dallaglio still harbours hopes of a place on the British and Irish Lions tour to New Zealand.
Dawson set for new Wasps contract European champions Wasps are set to offer Matt Dawson a new deal.
Healey targets England comeback Leicester wing Austin Healey hopes to use Sunday's return Heineken Cup clash with Wasps as a further springboard to an England recall for the Six Nations.
Scrum-half Williams rejoins Bath Bath have signed their former scrum-half Andy Williams on a short-term deal from the Neath-Swansea Ospreys.
Bath faced with Tindall ultimatum Mike Tindall's agent has warned Bath they have until next week to improve their contract offer to the England man or risk losing him to a rival club.
Tindall wants second opinion England centre Mike Tindall is to seek a second opinion before having surgery on a foot injury that could force him to miss the entire Six Nations.
Paris promise raises Welsh hopes Has there been a better Six Nations match than Saturday's epic in Paris?
Wales silent on Grand Slam talk Rhys Williams says Wales are still not thinking of winning the Grand Slam despite a third Six Nations win.
Sculthorpe wants Lions captaincy Paul Sculthorpe has admitted he would love to succeed Andy Farrell as Great Britain skipper if the Wigan star does switch codes to rugby union.
Tigers wary of Farrell 'gamble' Leicester say they will not be rushed into making a bid for Andy Farrell should the Great Britain rugby league captain decide to switch codes.
Farrell saga to drag on - Lindsay Wigan chairman Maurice Lindsay says he does not expect a quick solution to the on-going saga of captain Andy Farrell's possible switch to rugby union.
England given tough Sevens draw England will have to negotiate their way through a tough draw if they are to win the Rugby World Cup Sevens in Hong Kong next month.
Wales hails new superstar One game into his Six Nations career, and Gavin Henson is already a Welsh legend.
Sydney to host north v south game Sydney will host a northern versus southern hemisphere charity match in June or July, the Australian Rugby Union (ARU) said on Wednesday.
Celts savour Grand Slam prospect The Six Nations has heralded a new order in northern hemisphere rugby this year and Wales and Ireland rather than traditional big guns France and England face a potential Grand Slam play-off in three weeks' time.
Ireland win eclipses refereeing 'errors' The International Rugby Board may have to step in to stop frustrated coaches and players from publicly haranguing referees when things go belly-up.
Ireland 19-13 England Ireland consigned England to their third straight Six Nations defeat with a stirring victory at Lansdowne Road.
Fuming Robinson blasts officials England coach Andy Robinson said he was "livid" after his side were denied two tries in Sunday's 19-13 Six Nations loss to Ireland in Dublin.
Scotland 18-10 Italy Six Chris Paterson penalties gave Scotland victory in a dour but clinical encounter against Italy at Murrayfield.
Bortolami predicts dour contest Italy skipper Marco Bortolami believes Saturday's Six Nations contest against Scotland will be a scrappy encounter.
O'Connell rejects Lions rumours Ireland and Munster lock Paul O'Connell has dismissed media reports linking him to the captaincy of the Lions tour to New Zealand this summer.
Taylor poised for Scotland return Simon Taylor has been named in the Scotland squad for Saturday's Six Nations clash with Italy.
Vickery upbeat about arm injury England prop Phil Vickery is staying positive despite a broken arm ruling him out of the RBS Six Nations.
Dominici backs lacklustre France Wing Christophe Dominici says France can claim another Six Nations Grand Slam despite two lacklustre wins so far against Scotland and England.
Llewellyn plans Wales retirement Wales record cap holder Gareth Llewellyn will retire from Test rugby at the end of the Six Nations.
England 17-18 France England suffered an eighth defeat in 11 Tests as scrum-half Dimitri Yachvili booted France to victory at Twickenham.
Wilkinson to miss Ireland match England will have to take on Ireland in the Six Nations without captain and goal-kicker Jonny Wilkinson, according to his Newcastle boss Rob Andrew.
Italy 8-38 Wales Wales secured their first away win in the RBS Six Nations for nearly four years with a six-try victory in Rome.
D'Arcy injury adds to Ireland woe Gordon D'Arcy has been ruled out of the Ireland team for Saturday's Six Nations clash against Scotland in Murrayfield.
O'Driscoll out of Scotland game Ireland captain Brian O'Driscoll has been ruled out of Saturday's RBS Six Nations clash against Scotland.
Tindall aiming to earn Lions spot Bath and England centre Mike Tindall believes he can make this summer's Lions tour, despite missing most of the season through injury.
O'Connor aims to grab opportunity Johnny O'Connor is determined to make a big impression when he makes his RBS Six Nations debut for Ireland against Scotland on Saturday.
Henman overcomes rival Rusedski Tim Henman saved a match point before fighting back to defeat British rival Greg Rusedski 4-6 7-6 (8-6) 6-4 at the Dubai Tennis Championships on Tuesday.
Safin slumps to shock Dubai loss Marat Safin suffered a shock loss to unseeded Nicolas Kiefer in round one of the Dubai Tennis Championships.
Ferrero eyes return to top form Former world number one Juan Carlos Ferrero insists he can get back to his best despite a tough start to 2005.
Roddick into San Jose final Andy Roddick will play Cyril Saulnier in the final of the SAP Open in San Jose on Sunday.
Federer claims Dubai crown World number one Roger Federer added the Dubai Championship trophy to his long list of successes - but not before he was given a test by Ivan Ljubicic.
Young debut cut short by Ginepri Fifteen-year-old Donald Young's first appearance in an ATP tennis tournament proved brief as the teenager went out in round one of the San Jose Open.
Melzer shocks Agassi Second seed Andre Agassi suffered a comprehensive defeat by Jurgen Melzer in the quarter-finals of the SAP Open.
Federer forced to dig deep Top seed Roger Federer had to save two match points before squeezing past Juan Carlos Ferrero at the Dubai Open.
Nadal marches on in Mexico Rafael Nadal continued his run of fine form to beat Guillermo Canas and reach the Mexican Open semis in Acapulco.
Hantuchova in Dubai last eight Daniela Hantuchova moved into the quarter-finals of the Dubai Open, after beating Elene Likhotseva of Russia 7-5 6-4, and now faces Serena Williams.
Parmar ruled out of Davis Cup tie A knee injury has forced Arvind Parmar out of Great Britain's Davis Cup tie in Israel and left Alex Bogdanovic in line to take the second singles place.
Davenport hits out at Wimbledon World number one Lindsay Davenport has criticised Wimbledon over the issue of equal prize money for women.
Dogged Federer claims Dubai crown World number one Roger Federer added the Dubai Championship trophy to his long list of successes - but not before he was given a test by Ivan Ljubicic.
Henman hopes ended in Dubai Third seed Tim Henman slumped to a straight sets defeat in his rain-interrupted Dubai Open quarter-final against Ivan Ljubicic.
Mirza shocks Kuznetsova Sania Mirza continued her remarkable rise with victory over US Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova at the Dubai Championships on Tuesday.
Hantuchova in Dubai last eight Daniela Hantuchova moved into the quarter-finals of the Dubai Open, after beating Elene Likhotseva of Russia 7-5 6-4, and now faces Serena Williams.
Murray to make Cup history Andrew Murray will become Britain's youngest-ever Davis Cup player after it was confirmed he will play in the doubles against Israel on Saturday.
Davenport hits out at Wimbledon World number one Lindsay Davenport has criticised Wimbledon over the issue of equal prize money for women.
Venus stunned by Farina Elia Venus Williams suffered a first-round defeat for the first time in four years at the Dubai Championships.
Martinez sees off Vinci challenge Veteran Spaniard Conchita Martinez came from a set down to beat Italian Roberta Vinci at the Qatar Open in Doha.
Serena becomes world number two Serena Williams has moved up five places to second in the world rankings after her Australian Open win.
Hingis to make unexpected return Martina Hingis makes her return to competitve tennis after two years out of the game at the Volvo Women's Open in Pattaya, Thailand, on Tuesday.
Clijsters set for February return Tennis star Kim Clijsters will make her return from a career-threatening injury at the Antwerp WTA event in February.
Hewitt falls to Dent Lleyton Hewitt suffered a shock defeat to Taylor Dent in the quarter-finals of the Australian Hardcourt Championships in Adelaide on Friday.
Angry Williams rejects criticism Serena Williams has angrily rejected claims that she and sister Venus are a declining force in tennis.
Davenport dismantles young rival Top seed Lindsay Davenport booked her place in the last 16 of the Australian Open with a convincing 6-2 6-4 win over Nicole Vaidisova of the Czech Republic.
Serena ends Sania Mirza's dream Sania Mirza, the first Indian woman to reach the third round of a Grand Slam tennis event, has lost to women's favourite Serena Williams.
Kuznetsova 'failed a drugs test' US Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova has tested positive for a banned drug, according to Belgian authorities.
What now for British tennis? Tim Henman's decision to quit Davis Cup tennis has left the British team with a gargantuan void to fill.
Hewitt overcomes wobble in Sydney Lleyton Hewitt gave himself the perfect preparation for next week's Australian Open with victory over Ivo Minar in the final of the Sydney International.
Moya fights back for Indian title Carlos Moya became the first man to successfully defend the Chennai Open title by beating four-times finalist Paradorn Srichaphan 3-6 6-4 7-6 (7/5).
Rochus shocks Coria in Auckland Top seed Guillermo Coria went out of the Heineken Open in Auckland on Thursday with a surprise loss to Olivier Rochus of Belgium.
Johansson takes Adelaide victory Second seed Joachim Johansson won his second career title with a 7-5 6-3 win over Taylor Dent at the Australian hardcourt championships in Adelaide.
Hingis hints at playing comeback Martina Hingis has admitted that she might consider a competitive return to tennis if an appearance in Thailand later this month goes well.
Slovakia seal Hopman Cup success Slovakia clinched the Hopman Cup for the second time by beating Argentina 3-0 in Saturday's final in Perth.
Dementieva prevails in Hong Kong Elena Dementieva swept aside defending champion Venus Williams 6-3 6-2 to win Hong Kong's Champions Challenge event.
Injury sidelines Philippoussis Mark Philippoussis withdrew from the Sydney International tennis tournament as expected on Sunday after suffering a groin injury during the Hopman Cup.
Hewitt falls to Dent in Adelaide Lleyton Hewitt suffered a shock defeat to Taylor Dent in the quarter-finals of the Australian Hardcourt Championships in Adelaide on Friday.
Federer breezes into semi-finals Roger Federer reached the last four of the Qatar Open with an easy 6-1 6-2 win over seventh seed Feliciano Lopez.
Davenport puts retirement on hold Lindsay Davenport has put any talk of retirement on hold after having a largely injury-free 2004 campaign.
Rusedski angry over supplements Greg Rusedski has criticised the governing body of men's tennis for not releasing contamination-free supplements in time for the new season.
Navratilova hits out at critics Martina Navratilova has defended her decision to prolong her tennis career at the age of 48.
Prodigy Monfils blows away Gaudio French prodigy Gael Monfils underlined his huge promise by beating French Open champion Gaston Gaudio 6-4 7-6 (7-4) in the first round of the Qatar Open.
Connors boost for British tennis Former world number one Jimmy Connors is planning a long-term relationship with the Lawn Tennis Association to help unearth the next Tim Henman.
Henin-Hardenne beaten on comeback Justine Henin-Hardenne lost to Elena Dementieva in a comeback exhibition match in Belgium on Sunday for her second defeat in two days.
Moya clinches Cup for Spain Spain won the Davis Cup for the second time in their history when Carlos Moya beat the USA's Andy Roddick in the fourth rubber in Seville.
Capriati to miss Melbourne Jennifer Capriati has become the third leading lady to withdraw from the Australian Open because of injury.
Classy Henman makes winning start Tim Henman opened his 2005 campaign with a 6-1 7-5 victory over Argentine David Nalbandian at the Kooyong Classic exhibition tournament on Wednesday.
Moya emotional after Davis Cup win Carlos Moya described Spain's Davis Cup victory as the highlight of his career after he beat Andy Roddick to end the USA's challenge in Seville.
Moya emotional at Davis Cup win Carlos Moya described Spain's Davis Cup victory as the highlight of his career after he beat Andy Roddick to end the USA's challenge in Seville.
Capriati out of Australian Open Jennifer Capriati has become the third leading lady to withdraw from the Australian Open because of injury.
Bryan twins keep US hopes alive The United States kept the Davis Cup final alive with victory in Saturday's doubles rubber, leaving Spain 2-1 ahead going into the final day.
Faultless Federer has no equal Roger Federer - nice bloke, fantastic tennis player - the ultimate sportsman.
Mauresmo opens with victory in LA Amelie Mauresmo and Maria Sharapova won their opening matches at the Tour Championships in Los Angeles.
Agassi fear for Melbourne Andre Agassi's involvement in the Australian Open was put in doubt after he pulled out of the Kooyong Classic with a hip injury.
Henman to face Saulnier test British number one Tim Henman will face France's Cyril Saulnier in the first round of next week's Australian Open.
Moya suffers shock loss Fifth seed Carlos Moya was the first big name to fall at the Australian Open as he went down to fellow Spaniard Guillermo Garcia-Lopez on Monday.
Clijsters hope on Aussie Open Kim Clijsters has denied reports that she has pulled out of January's Australian Open because of her persistent wrist injury.
Clijsters could play Aussie Open Kim Clijsters has denied reports that she has pulled out of January's Australian Open because of her persistent wrist injury.
Edgy Agassi struggles past Dent Andre Agassi put in an erratic display before edging into the fourth round of the Australian Open with victory over Taylor Dent.
Roddick splits from coach Gilbert Andy Roddick has ended an 18-month association with coach Brad Gilbert which yielded the US Open title and saw the American become world number one.
Roddick in talks over new coach Andy Roddick is reportedly close to confirming US Davis Cup assistant Dean Goldfine as his new coach.
Hewitt survives Nalbandian epic Home favourite Lleyton Hewitt came through a dramatic five-set battle with Argentine David Nalbandian to reach the Australian Open semi-finals.
Sydney return for Henin-Hardenne Olympic champion Justine Henin-Hardenne will return to action in January's Sydney International tournament.
Koubek suspended after drugs test Stefan Koubek says he has been banned for three months by the International Tennis Federation (ITF) after testing positive for a banned substance.
Hewitt fights back to reach final Lleyton Hewitt kept his dream of an Australian Open title alive with a four-set win over Andy Roddick in Friday's second semi-final.
Officials respond in court row Australian tennis' top official has defended the Australian Open courts at Melbourne Park after criticism of the playing surface by Lleyton Hewitt.
Williams battles to Aussie title Serena Williams staged a remarkable recovery to beat Lindsay Davenport and win her second Australian Open title.
Safin cool on Wimbledon Newly-crowned Australian Open champion Marat Safin has ruled out any chance of winning Wimbledon in the future.
Safin plays down Wimbledon hopes Newly-crowned Australian Open champion Marat Safin has ruled out any chance of winning Wimbledon in the future.
Nadal puts Spain 2-0 up Result: Nadal 6-7 (6/8) 6-2 7-6 (8/6) 6-2 Roddick
Henman & Murray claim LTA awards Tim Henman was named player of the year for 2004 by the Lawn Tennis Association at Wimbledon on Monday.
Connors' rallying cry for British tennis "Do you have it in your heart? How much guts do you have? How much do you hate to lose?"
Roche 'turns down Federer offer' Australian tennis coach Tony Roche has turned down an approach from Roger Federer to be the world number one's new full-time coach, say reports.
Federer joins all-time greats The last year has seen one player dominate men's tennis, and one country dominate the women's game.
Philippoussis doubt over Open bid Mark Philippoussis is almost certain to miss the Australian Open after suffering a groin injury during the Hopman Cup loss to the Netherlands.
Slovakia reach Hopman Cup final Slovakia will play Argentina in the final of the Hopman Cup after beating Group B rivals the Netherlands 3-0.
Dent continues Adelaide progress American Taylor Dent reached the final of the Australian hardcourt event in Adelaide with a crushing 6-1 6-1 win over Argentine Juan Ignacio Chela.
Moya sidesteps Davis Cup in 2005 Carlos Moya has chosen not to help Spain try and defend the Davis Cup crown they won in Seville in November.
Henman decides to quit Davis Cup Tim Henman has retired from Great Britain's Davis Cup team.
Ivanovic seals Canberra victory Serbia's Ana Ivanovic captured her first WTA title with a straight-sets victory over Hungarian Melinda Czink in the final of the Canberra Classic.
Minister digs in over doping row The Belgian sports minister at the centre of the Svetlana Kuznetsova doping row says he will not apologise for making allegations against her.
Safin relieved at Aussie recovery Marat Safin admitted he thought he was suffering another Australian Open final nightmare when he lost the opening set to Lleyton Hewitt.
Veteran Martinez wins Thai title Conchita Martinez won her first title in almost five years with victory over Anna-Lena Groenefeld at the Volvo Women's Open in Pattaya, Thailand.
Soderling wins tense Milan final Fifth seed Robin Soderling took the Milan Indoors title with a dramatic win over Radek Stepanek in Sunday's final.
Rusedski forced out in Marseille Greg Rusedski was forced to withdraw from the Open 13 in Marseille on Thursday with a rib injury.
Big guns ease through in San Jose Top-seeded Americans Andy Roddick and Andre Agassi survived minor scares to reach the last eight of the SAP Open.
Almagro continues Spanish surge Unseeded Nicolas Almagro became the fifth Spaniard to reach the last eight at the Buenos Aires Open, ousting eighth seed Mariano Zabaleta.
Melzer shocks Agassi in San Jose Second seed Andre Agassi suffered a comprehensive defeat by Jurgen Melzer in the quarter-finals of the SAP Open.
Mirza makes Indian tennis history Teenager Sania Mirza completed a superb week at the Hyderabad Open by becoming the first Indian in history to win a WTA singles title.
Roddick to face Saulnier in final Andy Roddick will play Cyril Saulnier in the final of the SAP Open in San Jose on Sunday.
%%%politics
Labour plans maternity pay rise Maternity pay for new mothers is to rise by £1,400 as part of new proposals announced by the Trade and Industry Secretary Patricia Hewitt.
Watchdog probes e-mail deletions The information commissioner says he is urgently asking for details of Cabinet Office orders telling staff to delete e-mails more than three months old.
Hewitt decries 'career sexism' Plans to extend paid maternity leave beyond six months should be prominent in Labour's election manifesto, the Trade and Industry Secretary has said.
Labour chooses Manchester The Labour Party will hold its 2006 autumn conference in Manchester and not Blackpool, it has been confirmed.
Brown ally rejects Budget spree Chancellor Gordon Brown's closest ally has denied suggestions there will be a Budget giveaway on 16 March.
'Errors' doomed first Dome sale The initial attempt to sell the Millennium Dome failed due to a catalogue of errors, a report by the government's finance watchdog says.
Fox attacks Blair's Tory 'lies' Tony Blair lied when he took the UK to war so has no qualms about lying in the election campaign, say the Tories.
Women MPs reveal sexist taunts Women MPs endure "shocking" levels of sexist abuse at the hands of their male counterparts, a new study shows.
Campbell: E-mail row 'silly fuss' Ex-No 10 media chief Alastair Campbell is at the centre of a new political row over an e-mail containing a four-letter outburst aimed at BBC journalists.
Crucial decision on super-casinos A decision on whether to allow Westminster to legislate on super-casinos is set to be made by the Scottish Parliament.
Mrs Howard gets key election role Michael Howard's ex-model wife, Sandra, is to play a leading role in the Conservative election campaign.
PM apology over jailings Tony Blair has apologised to two families who suffered one of the UK's biggest miscarriages of justice.
Howard rebuts asylum criticisms Tory leader Michael Howard has gone on the offensive in response to people questioning how a son of immigrants can propose asylum quotas.
Blair rejects Tory terror offer Tony Blair has rejected a Conservative compromise offer that could have eased the passage of anti-terror legislation.
Talks held on Gibraltar's future Two days of talks on the future of Gibraltar begin at Jack Straw's country residence later on Wednesday.
Crisis 'ahead in social sciences' A national body designed to tackle skills shortages in key subjects should be set up, a committee of MPs has said.
Tsunami debt deal to be announced Chancellor Gordon Brown has said he hopes to announce a deal to suspend debt interest repayments by tsunami-hit nations later on Friday.
Straw to attend Auschwitz service Foreign Secretary Jack Straw will visit Auschwitz for the 60th anniversary of the former Nazi concentration camp's liberation, it has been announced.
Drink remark 'acts as diversion' The first minister's statement that it was okay to get drunk "once in a while" has diverted attention from the real issues, it has been claimed.
Concerns at school diploma plan Final appeals are being made for the government not to ditch the reform plan for England's secondary schools put forward by the Tomlinson report.
Blair backs 'pre-election budget' Tony Blair has backed Chancellor Gordon Brown's pre-Budget report amid opposition claims he was too bullish about the state of the UK economy.
Nat Insurance to rise, say Tories National Insurance will be raised if Labour wins the next election, Tory leader Michael Howard has claimed.
E-University 'disgraceful waste' A failed government scheme to offer UK university courses online has been branded a "disgraceful waste" by MPs.
Brown visits slum on Africa trip Chancellor Gordon Brown has visited Kenya's biggest shantytown as he opened a week-long visit to Africa.
UK 'needs true immigration data' A former Home Office minister has called for an independent body to be set up to monitor UK immigration.
Blair sets date for Africa report The Commission for Africa's report will be released on 11 March - Comic Relief day, Tony Blair has said.
Butler launches attack on Blair Former civil service chief Lord Butler has criticised the way Tony Blair's government operates, accusing it of being obsessed with headlines.
Lib Dems demand new inquiry A judge should look into the David Blunkett controversy as key questions remain unanswered, the Lib Dems say.
UK set to cut back on embassies Nine overseas embassies and high commissions will close in an effort to save money, UK Foreign Secretary Jack Straw has announced.
Labour targets 'hardcore truants' A fresh crackdown on persistent truants in England has been launched by Education Secretary Ruth Kelly.
Blunkett sorry over murder plan David Blunkett has apologised to MPs after the Home Office announced "prematurely" via press release a review of murder laws.
Hunt demo at Labour meeting Pro-hunt supporters are set to protest at Labour's spring conference.
Protesters plan airport challenge Campaigners against the expansion of Britain's airports have begun challenging the government's plans in the High Court.
Tories attack burglar 'U-turns' Tory leader Michael Howard has accused Tony Blair of performing U-turns over rules on using force against burglars.
Leaders meet over Turkish EU bid Tony Blair has met Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi and German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder to talk about Turkey entering the EU.
Choose hope over fear - Kennedy Voters will have a clear choice between the politics of fear and the politics of hope in the next general election, said Charles Kennedy.
Profile: David Miliband David Miliband's rapid rise through the ranks of government continues with his promotion to Cabinet Office minister.
Borders rail link campaign rally Campaigners are to stage a rally calling for a Borders rail link which was closed in 1969 to be reopened.
'Hitler' row over Welsh arts cash An artist critical of Welsh arts funding being brought under assembly government control has denied comparing the idea with dictatorships in Russia and Germany.
Lords wrong on detainees - Straw Jack Straw has attacked the decision by Britain's highest court that detaining foreign terrorist suspects without trial breaks human rights laws.
Profile: David Blunkett Before he resigned the position of home secretary on Wednesday, David Blunkett had been in charge of a substantial body of government portfolios including race, policing and immigration.
Strike threat over pension plans Millions of public service workers could strike if ministers scrap their final salary pension scheme and make them work longer, warn union leaders.
Parties warned over 'grey vote' Political parties cannot afford to take older UK voters for granted in the coming election, says Age Concern.
MPs quiz aides over royal income Senior officials at the two bodies generating private income for the Queen and Prince of Wales are to be questioned by MPs.
Tory leader 'cleared' over work Scottish Conservative Party leader David McLetchie claims he has been cleared over a potential conflict of interest.
Blair and Blunkett Sheffield trip Tony Blair is to join Home Secretary David Blunkett in a visit to Sheffield on Thursday.
Student 'fee factor' played down A rise has been recorded in the number of students from south of the border applying to universities in Scotland.
Anglers 'could face prosecution' Anglers and fishermen could find themselves prosecuted under plans to crack down on animal cruelty, a committee of MPs has warned.
Clarke to press on with ID cards New Home Secretary Charles Clarke has vowed to plough on with plans for ID cards despite a call for him to "pause for thought" from Charles Kennedy.
Scots smoking ban details set out Smoke-free areas will save lives and improve Scotland's health, First Minister Jack McConnell has insisted.
MPs criticise child access system Divorced parents seeking access to their children are often disadvantaged by the legal system, MPs have said.
Nuclear strike 'key terror risk' The UK and US must realise they cannot prevent all terror attacks and should focus on making sure they are not nuclear strikes, says a top academic.
Russian ex-spy on hunger strike An ex-Russian intelligence officer who risked his life spying for MI6 is entering the seventh week of a hunger strike near 10 Downing Street.
Lib Dems 'to target stamp duty' The Liberal Democrats are promising to raise the stamp duty threshold if they win the general election, in a bid to court first-time house buyers.
Kelly trails new discipline power Teachers could get more powers to remove unruly pupils from classes under a "zero tolerance" drive, Education Secretary Ruth Kelly has suggested.
Citizenship event for 18s touted Citizenship ceremonies could be introduced for people celebrating their 18th birthday, Charles Clarke has said.
England children's tsar appointed The first children's commissioner for England has been appointed.
EU China arms ban 'to be lifted' The EU embargo on arms exports to China is likely to be lifted in the next six months despite US objections, UK Foreign Secretary Jack Straw has said.
'Debate needed' on donations cap A cap on donations to political parties should not be introduced yet, the elections watchdog has said.
Cardinal criticises Iraq war cost Billions of pounds spent on conflict in Iraq and in the Middle East should have been used to reduce poverty, Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor has said.
Assembly ballot papers 'missing' Hundreds of ballot papers for the regional assembly referendum in the North East have "disappeared".
Muslims discuss election concerns Issues that Muslims should be considering before voting in the next general election are to be debated by UK community representatives.
Drive to 'save' festive holidays Efforts are being made to 'protect' workers' days off on Christmas Day and New Year's Day.
Blair hails Turkey-EU talks deal Tony Blair has hailed a deal bringing Turkey a step closer to EU membership as important for the world's future "peace and prosperity".
Guantanamo pair's passport ban The government has written to two of the British men freed from Guantanamo Bay telling them they will not be allowed passports.
Commons hunt protest charges Eight protesters who stormed the House of Commons chamber during a debate on the Hunting Bill have been charged with disorderly conduct.
Child access laws shake-up Parents who refuse to allow former partners contact with their children could be electronically tagged under plans being considered by ministers. Curfews and community service orders were other options which could be used if court orders to allow parental access were defied, Lord Falconer said. The constitutional affairs secretary outlined some of the plans on Tuesday. He denied fathers' activists had forced the changes, telling the BBC "there is a recognition that something is wrong". Between 15,000 and 20,000 couples go to court to resolve access disputes each year, although in nine out of 10 separations there is no court intervention.
MPs to debate 'euthanasia laws' MPs are preparing to debate a bill which critics claim would legalise euthanasia "by the back door".
Talks aim to avert pension strike Talks aimed at averting a series of national strikes over pensions reforms will take place this weekend.
Opposition grows to house arrests The Conservatives have expressed "serious misgivings" about government plans for keeping UK and foreign terror suspects under house arrest.
Visa decision 'every 11 minutes' Visa processing staff are sometimes expected to rule on an application every 11 minutes, MPs have said.
'No more concessions' on terror Charles Clarke says he has "no desire" to offer more concessions on his controversial anti-terror plans to get them on to the statute book.
No to Royal succession shake-up A Labour peer has withdrawn proposals to give female members of the Royal Family the same rights as males.
BNP leader Nick Griffin arrested The leader of the British National Party has been arrested as part of a police inquiry following the screening of a BBC documentary.
Boris opposes mayor apology Ken Livingstone should "stick to his guns" and not apologise for his "Nazi" comment to a Jewish reporter, Tory MP Boris Johnson has insisted.
Report attacks defence spending The Ministry of Defence has been criticised over the soaring spending costs and growing delays of its top equipment projects.
Brown names 16 March for Budget Chancellor Gordon Brown will deliver his Budget to the House of Commons on 16 March, the Treasury has announced.
Asylum children to face returns The UK government is planning to return asylum seeker children without parents to Albania.
'Fido' to be taken off vote lists The risk of pets and children being given votes could be cut by changing how people register to vote, the UK elections watchdog has said.
'More to do' on adult literacy The government will only hit its target for improving adult maths and literacy skills if courses are made more attractive, a report says.
Tory backing for ID cards The Tories are to back controversial government plans to introduce ID cards.
Labour's 'EU propaganda' A "taxpayer subsidised propaganda exercise" on the EU is being used to lull the British public into a false sense of security, say the Tories.
Hague 'given up' his PM ambition Former Conservative leader William Hague says he will not stand for the leadership again, having given up his ambition to be prime minister.
Job cuts 'false economy'  - TUC Plans to shed 71,000 civil service jobs will prove to be a "false economy" that could hamper public sector reforms, according to a TUC report.
UK's 'useless' quangos under fire The UK has 529 quangos financed with billions of pounds of taxpayers' cash - many of which are useless or duplicate each other's efforts, a report claims.
Howard backs stem cell research Michael Howard has backed stem cell research, saying it is important people are not frightened of the future.
Howard unveils Tory asylum plans Tory plans to cut immigration to the UK are not racist and will make the asylum system fairer for genuine refugees, Michael Howard has said.
Campaign 'cold calls' questioned Labour and the Conservatives are still telephoning the millions of people who have signed up to make sure they do not get marketing "cold calls".
Tory leader quits legal position David McLetchie has resigned from his post as a partner in a legal firm following criticism over his dual role.
MSPs hear renewed climate warning Climate change could be completely out of control within several decades, the Scottish Environment Protection Agency is warning a committee of MSPs.
Vouchers 'to cut winter deaths' Pensioners are being promised energy savings by the Liberal Democrats, as snow and cold temperatures continue.
New 'yob' targets to be unveiled Fifty new areas getting special help to fight anti-social behaviour in England and Wales will be named on Thursday.
Kennedy calls for Iraq exit plans Tony Blair should set out a proper exit strategy from Iraq in the wake of next Sunday's elections in the country, Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy has said.
McConnell in 'drunk' remark row Scotland's first minister has told a group of high school pupils that it is okay to get drunk "once in a while".
Brown hits back in Blair rift row Gordon Brown has criticised a union leader who said conflict between himself and Tony Blair was harming the workings of government.
Tories 'would cut number of MPs' The Conservative Party would cut the number of MPs by about one-fifth if they were elected, Tory leader Michael Howard has said.
UK plan to deport terror suspects Deals are being sought to allow the UK to deport terror suspects to their home countries without risk of them being tortured or sentenced to death.
Ministers deny care sums 'wrong' Ministers have insisted they are committed to free personal care for the elderly despite research suggesting the cost of the policy was under-estimated.
Blair stresses prosperity goals Tony Blair says his party's next manifesto will be "unremittingly New Labour" and aimed at producing "personal prosperity for all".
Guantanamo man 'suing government' A British terror suspect held in Guantanamo Bay for 33 months plans to sue the government, it is reported.
Council tax rise 'reasonable' Welsh councils should set their taxes at "reasonable levels" after being given an average funding increase of 6%, says the assembly government.
Blunkett row should end - Blair Prime Minister Tony Blair said it was time to draw a line under the controversy surrounding David Blunkett.
Minimum rate for foster parents Foster carers are to be guaranteed a minimum allowance to help cover their costs, the government has announced.
Royal couple watch nation's mood Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles are awaiting the nation's reaction after announcing they are to be married on 8 April.
Muslim police stops 'more likely' UK Muslims should accept that people of Islamic appearance are more likely to be stopped and searched by police, a Home Office minister has said.
Howard attacks cost of asylum Michael Howard has launched an attack on the cost of Britain's "chaotic" asylum system under Tony Blair.
Brown outlines third term vision Gordon Brown has outlined what he thinks should be the key themes of New Labour's next general election bid.
'Super union' merger plan touted Two of Britain's big trade unions could merge to form a "super union" of two million members.
UK firms 'embracing e-commerce' UK firms are embracing internet trading opportunities as never before, e-commerce minister Mike O'Brien says.
UK heading wrong way - Howard Tony Blair has had the chance to tackle the problems facing Britain and has failed, Michael Howard has said.
Kilroy launches 'Veritas' party Ex-BBC chat show host and East Midlands MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk has said he wants to "change the face of British politics" as he launched his new party.
Blair 'damaged' by Blunkett row A majority of voters (68%) believe the prime minister has been damaged by the row over David Blunkett's involvement in a visa application, a poll suggests.
MP's shock at long lost daughter Labour MP Stephen Pound has told of his shock and his joy on learning he fathered a daughter when he was "out of control" during the "wild" 1960s.
Green fear for transport ballot The Green Party is concerned thousands of residents may not be able to vote in Edinburgh's transport referendum.
New drink limit 'would cut toll' More lives than previously thought could be saved by cutting drink-drive limits by a third, a report says.
CSA 'could close', says minister Ministers would not rule out scrapping the Child Support Agency if it failed to improve, Work and Pensions Secretary Alan Johnson has warned.
Boothroyd calls for Lords speaker Betty Boothroyd has said the House of Lords needs its own Speaker and that peers should lead the way on reforming the upper chamber.
Bid to cut court witness stress New targets to reduce the stress to victims and witnesses giving evidence in courts in England and Wales have been announced by the lord chancellor.
Lord Scarman, 93, dies peacefully Distinguished lawyer Lord Scarman, who conducted the inquiry into the 1981 Brixton riots, has died aged 93.
Tory leader urges Harry apology Prince Harry should personally make clear how sorry he is about wearing a Nazi uniform to a friend's fancy dress party, says Tory leader Michael Howard.
NHS waiting time target is cut Hospital waiting times for patients in Wales are to be cut, but not to the same extent as those in England.
Tories plan migrant health checks Non-European Union citizens wanting to work in the UK will have to undergo tests for Tuberculosis and HIV, under plans unveiled by the Conservatives.
MPs issued with Blackberry threat MPs will be thrown out of the Commons if they use Blackberries in the chamber Speaker Michael Martin has ruled.
Wales 'must learn health lessons' The new health minister for Wales says there are lessons to learn from England in tackling waiting lists.
UKIP candidate suspended Eurosceptic party UKIP have suspended a candidate for allegedly suggesting the criminally insane should be killed.
End Bush 'denial' Blair tells EU Tony Blair is urging European leaders to wake up from their "state of denial" over President Bush's re-election.
Brown to outline presidency goals Next year will be "make or break" for development in poorer countries Gordon Brown will say as he sets out UK goals for its EU and G8 presidencies.
Brown shrugs off economy fears Gordon Brown is to freeze petrol duty increases, fund a £1bn package to avoid big council tax rises and boost childcare and maternity leave.
UK troops on Ivory Coast standby Downing Street has confirmed British troops are on standby in case they need to help evacuate several hundred UK citizens from Ivory Coast.
Blair told to double overseas aid Tony Blair is being urged to use all his negotiating powers to end poor countries' debt and double aid.
Peace demo appeal rejected Peace protestors have lost a landmark appeal over police actions in stopping an anti-war demonstration days after the start of the Iraq war.
Retirement age could be scrapped The "myth that ageing is a barrier" to contributing to society needs to be "exploded", the work and pensions minister has said.
Jowell rejects 'Las Vegas' jibe The Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, Tessa Jowell, has hit out at critics of the Gambling Bill.
Ban on hunting comes into force Fox hunting with dogs is now illegal in England and Wales after a ban on the activity came into force overnight.
Blair says UK tsunami aid to soar Tony Blair has predicted the British Government will eventually give "hundreds of millions" of pounds in aid to countries hit by the tsunami.
Straw attacked on China arms Moves to lift the European Union's ban on arms exports to China have been condemned by human rights groups and the Conservatives.
Defiant hunts put ban to the test Thousands of hunt supporters have been out on the first day of hunting in England and Wales after the ban on hunting with dogs came into force.
EU fraud clampdown urged EU member states are failing to report fraud and irregularities in EU funds on a consistent basis, the UK's public spending watchdog has said.
Straw praises Kashmir moves The UK has welcomed the decision by India and Pakistan to open a bus link across the ceasefire line dividing the disputed region of Kashmir.
UK helps raped Rwandan women Britain is to give a £4m grant to help women survivors of the Rwandan genocide who were raped and often deliberately infected with HIV/Aids.
Howard denies split over ID cards Michael Howard has denied his shadow cabinet was split over its decision to back controversial Labour plans to introduce ID cards.
EU referendum question unveiled The question to be asked in the referendum on the EU Constitution has been unveiled by the government.
Malik rejects all-black MP lists A call for ethnic minority shortlists to boost the number of black and Asian MPs has been rejected by one of Labour's most senior Asians.
MP attacked by muggers in Kenya An MP has had more than £600 and his passport stolen after being mugged by six men in a park in Kenya.
Candidate resigns over BNP link A prospective candidate for the UK Independence Party (UKIP) has resigned after admitting a "brief attachment" to the British National Party(BNP).
'Nuclear dumpsite' plan attacked Plans to allow foreign nuclear waste to be permanently stored in the UK have been branded "deeply irresponsible" by the Liberal Democrats.
Labour accused of broken pledge Labour has already broken its pre-election promise on immigration before the ink has dried on its new pledge card, the Tories have claimed.
Labour trio 'had vote-rig factory' Three Labour councillors in Birmingham were caught operating a "vote-rigging factory", an Election Court has heard.
Blair returns from peace mission Prime Minister Tony Blair has arrived back from his diplomatic mission to the Middle East to try to resurrect the peace process.
Galloway plea for hostage release Ex-Labour MP George Galloway has appealed for the release of aid worker Margaret Hassan, kidnapped in Iraq.
Guantanamo four questioned The four Britons freed from US custody in Guantanamo Bay are expected to be allowed a visit by one relative.
Minister defends hunting ban law The law banning hunting with dogs in England and Wales is enforceable and "very clear", Alun Michael has said.
Clarke to unveil immigration plan New controls on economic migrants and tighter border patrols will be part of government plans unveiled on Monday.
Mayor will not retract Nazi jibe London mayor Ken Livingstone has again refused to retract a Nazi insult made to a Jewish reporter.
Pakistani women 'must not hide' Hiding women away in the home hidden behind veils is a backward view of Islam, President Musharraf of Pakistan has said during a visit to Britain.
Visa row mandarin made Sir John The top civil servant at the centre of the David Blunkett visa affair has been knighted in the New Year Honours.
Kilroy-Silk attacked with slurry Euro MP Robert Kilroy-Silk has had a bucket of farm slurry thrown over him by a protester in Manchester.
Petrol duties frozen, Brown says Chancellor Gordon Brown has announced a freeze on fuel duty in his pre-budget speech to the Commons on Thursday.
Howard unveils election platform The Conservatives would stand up for the "forgotten majority", Michael Howard pledged as he unveiled the first part of the Tory election manifesto.
Lawyer attacks anti-terror laws A senior barrister who has resigned in protest over the government's anti-terror laws says the current system is giving Britain a bad name.
Turkey deal 'to help world peace' A deal bringing Turkey a step closer to EU membership is of "fundamental importance" to the peace and security of the world, Tony Blair has said.
Protect whistleblowers, TUC says The government should change the law to give more protection to employees who raise health and safety concerns about their workplaces, the TUC has said.
Kinnock to urge reform in Lords Neil Kinnock has said his acceptance of a seat in the House of Lords will allow him to help "achieve further progress with substantial democratic reform."
McConnell details Scots wave toll At least three people from Scotland died in the tsunami disaster and a further three are on the missing list, the first minister has told MSPs.
Police urge pub closure power New powers are needed to close disorderly pubs, bars and clubs for up to a week or even permanently, police chiefs have told MPs.
Blunkett tells of love and pain David Blunkett has spoken of his love for married publisher Kimberly Quinn for the first time.
Housing plans criticised by MPs "Irreversible environmental damage" will be caused by government plans to build more than one million homes in south-east England, MPs have warned.
MPs' murder sentence concern Murder sentences should not be reduced automatically simply because of a guilty plea, says a new MPs' report.
'No-one can define new hunt ban' The new law banning hunting with dogs is "so poorly drafted" no-one can define the offence, pro-hunt MPs say.
Hospital suspends 'no Welsh' plan An English hospital has suspended plans to stop treating Welsh patients who have waited more than three months.
Tories pledge free sports lessons Children would be offered two hours' free sports training a week by a future Tory government, the party has said.
Faith schools citizenship warning Schools must improve the quality of citizenship lessons - or social cohesion and democracy will suffer, says the education watchdog.
Ministers lose slopping out case The Scottish Executive has lost an appeal against an inmate's compensation for being forced to slop out in prison.
Escaped prisoner report ordered First Minister Jack McConnell has ordered a report on the decision to allow a paranoid schizophrenic knife attacker to go on a visit unguarded.
Chancellor rallies Labour voters Gordon Brown has issued a rallying cry, telling supporters the "stakes are too high" to stay at home or protest vote in the forthcoming general election.
Councils 'must find Gypsy sites' Ministers are telling councils to find more sites for travellers, amid continuing rows concerning a string of unauthorised encampments.
Plaid MP's cottage arson claim A Plaid Cymru MP believes UK security services were involved in some arson attacks blamed on Welsh extremists.
Hatfield executives go on trial Engineering firm Balfour Beatty and five railway managers are to go on trial for manslaughter over the Hatfield rail crash in 2000.
Final hunts held as ban looms Hunts in England and Wales have begun on the last day that hunting with dogs is legal, with more due out later.
Falconer rebuts 'charade' claims Concessions on a bill which critics claim would allow euthanasia "through the back door" were not a political ploy, the lord chancellor has said.
School sport 'is back', says PM Tony Blair has promised that "sport is back" as a priority for schools.
Anti-terror plan faces first test Plans to allow Home Secretary Charles Clarke to place terror suspects under house arrest without trial are set for their first real test in Parliament.
Former NI minister Scott dies Former Northern Ireland minister Sir Nicholas Scott has died at a London hospice, his family has announced.
Blair rejects Iraq advice calls Tony Blair has rejected calls for the publication of advice on the legality of the Iraq war amid growing calls for an investigation.
Police probe BNP mosque leaflet Police are investigating a British National Party leaflet posted to homes in south Wales opposing plans for a new mosque.
Blair says mayor should apologise Tony Blair has urged London mayor Ken Livingstone to apologise for his "Nazi" comment to a Jewish reporter.
Jowell confirms casino climbdown Tessa Jowell has announced plans to limit the number of new casinos in the UK to 24, in a move branded a "humiliating retreat" by the Tories.
Security papers 'found in street' An inquiry is under way after files containing security details about the Pakistani president's visit to London were found by a member of the public.
Blair congratulates Bush on win Tony Blair has said he looks forward to continuing his strong relationship with George Bush and working with him during his second term as president.
Howard 'truanted to play snooker' Conservative leader Michael Howard has admitted he used to play truant to spend time with his school friends at a snooker hall.
Short attacks US over tsunami aid Former Cabinet minister Clare Short has criticised the US-led tsunami aid coalition, saying the UN should be leading efforts.
Guantanamo four free in weeks All four Britons held by the US in Guantanamo Bay will be returned to the UK within weeks, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw told the Commons on Tuesday.
Tories attack EU asylum moves David Blunkett has been accused of using the "politics of confusion" to disguise new EU immigration measures.
Cherie accused of attacking Bush Cherie Blair has been accused of criticising George W Bush's policies in a private address she gave during a United States lecture tour.
Tsunami 'won't divert Africa aid' UK aid to help the victims of the Asian tsunami disaster will not take much needed relief from Africa, Prime Minister Tony Blair has promised.
Mandelson warning to BBC The BBC should steer away from "demonising" ex-Downing Street media chief Alastair Campbell, Peter Mandelson has said.
Blair 'pressing US on climate' Tony Blair is pressing the US to cut greenhouse gases despite its unwillingness to sign the Kyoto Protocol, Downing Street has indicated.
Police chief backs drinking move A chief constable has backed the introduction of 24-drinking, saying police had a responsibility to ensure people could benefit from a law change.
Game warnings 'must be clearer' Violent video games should carry larger warnings so parents can understand what their children are playing, the trade and industry secretary has said.
Mallon wades into NE vote battle Middlesbrough mayor Ray Mallon has been drafted in to boost the Yes campaign as the North East assembly referendum enters its final week.
Howard rejects BNP's claim Tory leader Michael Howard has dismissed claims that his immigration policy was "moving onto the turf" of the British National Party (BNP).
Tories opposing 24-hour drinking The Tories say plans to extend pub opening times should be put on hold until binge drinking is under control, despite backing a law change last year.
New foot and mouth action urged A senior Tory MP has criticised agriculture department Defra's "lackadaisical" approach to planning for a future foot and mouth outbreak.
Correction agency plans dropped Plans to create a single correctional agency for Scotland have been scrapped.
Tutu's Guantanamo release call Archbishop Desmond Tutu has called for the release of the remaining inmates at Guantanamo Bay and terror suspects detained without trial in the UK.
Blair's hope for Blunkett return The events leading to David Blunkett's resignation must not "swept under the carpet", the Tories have warned.
February poll claim 'speculation' Reports that Tony Blair is planning a snap general election for February 2005 have been described as "idle speculation" by Downing Street.
Gurkhas to help tsunami victims Britain has offered to send a company of 120 Gurkhas to assist with the tsunami relief effort in Indonesia, Downing Street said.
Abbas 'will not tolerate' attacks Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas has said he will not tolerate attacks such as last Friday's suicide bombing in the Israeli city of Tel Aviv.
Thousands join strike in Wales Thousands of civil servants were on strike across Wales on Friday in protest at planned job cuts.
Top judge clashes with ministers The UK's top judge has revealed he has clashed with ministers about how the heads of public inquiries are chosen.
Tory expert denies defeatism The Conservatives' campaign director has denied a report claiming he warned Michael Howard the party could not win the next general election.
Lib Dems target the student vote Students can decide the fate of MPs in some seats at the next election, Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy has claimed.
Custody death rate 'shocks' MPs Deaths in custody have reached "shocking" levels, a committee of MPs and peers has warned.
New rules tackle 'sham weddings' New rules on marriage for foreign nationals living in the UK are coming into force.
Ministers 'naive' over phone-taps The government is being naive by refusing to allow phone-tap evidence in court, a senior EU politician says.
Schools to take part in mock poll Record numbers of schools across the UK are to take part in a mock general election backed by the government.
Blair dismisses quit claim report Tony Blair has dismissed reports he told Gordon Brown he would quit before the next general election.
Jamieson issues warning to bigots Scotland's justice minister has warned bigoted soccer fans that she wants to hit them "where it hurts most" by banning them from matches.
Clarke plans migrant point scheme Anyone planning to move to the UK will have to pass a test to prove they can contribute to the country, Home Secretary Charles Clarke has said.
Clarke defends terror detentions The home secretary has defended his decision not to release foreign terror suspects despite a legal ruling their detention breached human rights laws.
Voters 'reject EU by two to one' British voters would reject the European constitution by two to one, according to a poll posing the question the government will put to the country.
Kennedy questions trust of Blair Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy has said voters now have a "fundamental lack of trust" of Tony Blair as prime minister.
Terror detainees win Lords appeal Detaining foreign terrorist suspects without trial breaks human rights laws, the UK's highest court has ruled.
Blair to face MPs amid feud talk Tony Blair faces his first prime minister's questions of 2005 after a week of renewed speculation about his relationship with Gordon Brown.
Tories unveil quango blitz plans Plans to abolish 162 quangos have been unveiled by the Conservatives as part of their effort to show how government red tape can be cut.
Clarke faces ID cards rebellion Charles Clarke faces his first real test as home secretary on Monday with a possible backbench rebellion over the controversial ID cards bill.
Labour pig poster 'anti-Semitic' The Labour Party has been accused of anti-Semitism over a poster depicting Michael Howard and Oliver Letwin - who are both Jewish - as flying pigs.
Iraqis win death test case probe The family of an Iraqi civilian allegedly killed by UK troops have won a challenge against the government's refusal to order a full inquiry.
Burglar defence guidelines issued Householders who injure or even kill intruders are unlikely to be prosecuted - providing they were acting "honestly and instinctively", new guidelines say.
Woolf murder sentence rethink Plans to give murderers lighter sentences if they plead guilty have been watered down.
Probe launched on Ken Nazi jibe An investigation by the Standards Board is under way following allegations that Ken Livingstone has brought his office into disrepute.
'Few ready' for information act Thousands of public bodies are ill-prepared for the Freedom of Information Act, due to come into force next month, because of government failures, say MPs.
Blunkett unveils policing plans People could be given the mobile phone number of their local bobby under an overhaul of policing in England and Wales unveiled by David Blunkett.
Lib Dems' new election PR chief The Lib Dems have appointed a senior figure from BT to be the party's new communications chief for their next general election effort.
Jack Cunningham to stand down Veteran Labour MP and former Cabinet minister Jack Cunningham has said he will stand down at the next election.
Kilroy unveils immigration policy Ex-chatshow host Robert Kilroy-Silk has attacked UK policy on immigration saying Britain's open door approach is hitting low wage "indigenous" workers.
Regiments' group in poll move A regiments' campaign group is to target nine marginal Labour seats at the General Election.
Row over 'police' power for CSOs The Police Federation has said it strongly opposes giving Community Support Officers (CSOs) the power to detain suspects for up to 30 minutes.
Sport betting rules in spotlight A group of MPs and peers has called for a tightening of regulations controlling betting on sport.
Councils prepare to set tax rises Council tax in Scotland is set to rise by an average of about 4% in the coming year, BBC Scotland has learned.
Whitehall shredding increasing - Tories Civil servants have drastically stepped up the shredding of official documents, figures compiled by the Tories suggest.
MPs assess Scots fishing industry A group of MPs are on a two-day fact-finding mission to Scotland to gather evidence for a report into the UK's fishing industry.
Research fears over Kelly's views Scientists have expressed concerns that new education secretary Ruth Kelly's religious views could hamper vital scientific research.
Army chiefs in regiments decision Military chiefs are expected to meet to make a final decision on the future of Scotland's Army regiments.
Student 'inequality' exposed Teenagers from well-off backgrounds are six times more likely to go to university than those from the most deprived areas, a report says.
Kennedy to make temple address Charles Kennedy is set to address 2,000 people at a Hindu temple as part of an appeal to ethnic minority voters.
David Blunkett in quotes David Blunkett - who has resigned as home secretary - built his reputation as a plain-speaking Yorkshire man.
No election TV debate, says Blair Tony Blair has said he will not take part in a TV debate with his political rivals ahead of the next election.
What the election should really be about? A general election is the best chance most pressure groups get to make a real impact on government policy. Here is how six leading lobbies plan to make sure their cause is being debated ahead of an expected Spring poll.
Brown and Blair face new rift claims For the umpteenth time, Tony Blair and Gordon Brown are said to have declared all out war on each other.
Blair 'said he would stand down' Tony Blair promised Gordon Brown he would stand down before the next election, a new book about the chancellor claims.
Blair dismisses quit claim report Tony Blair has dismissed reports he told Gordon Brown he would quit before the next general election.
Could rivalry overshadow election? Tony Blair and Gordon Brown are desperately trying to stuff the genie of their rivalry back into the bottle.
Brown in appeal for Labour unity Gordon Brown has made an appeal for unity after reports claimed Mr Blair went back on a pledge to stand down before the next general election.
Blair pledges unity to Labour MPs Tony Blair has sought to reassure Labour backbenchers that nothing will stand in the way of the party's bid for a third term in power.
Blair and Brown criticised by MPs Labour MPs have angrily criticised Tony Blair and Gordon Brown amid renewed reports of a rift between the two men.
Labour MPs' fears over squabbling If there is one thing certain to stiffen the spines of Labour MPs it is the prospect of losing their seats at a general election.
'Poll Idols' face first hurdles Vote For Me - ITV1's Pop Idol style talent contest for would-be politicians - finally hits our screens this week.
Labour seeks to quell feud talk Labour's leadership put on a show of unity at a campaign poster launch after MPs criticised Tony Blair and Gordon Brown over reports of their rift.
Labour's election love-in Peace and love have been in short supply in the Labour party in recent days.
Howard taunts Blair over splits Tony Blair's feud with Gordon Brown is damaging the way the UK is governed, Tory leader Michael Howard has claimed in a heated prime minister's questions.
How political squabbles snowball It's become commonplace to argue that Blair and Brown are like squabbling school kids and that they (and their supporters) need to grow up and stop bickering.
Blair looks to election campaign Tony Blair's big speech will be looked back on as the performance that kicked off the election campaign.
Tories unveil quango blitz plans Plans to abolish 162 quangos have been unveiled by the Conservatives as part of their effort to show how government red tape can be cut.
Peers debate Crown succession law Peers are debating proposals to change the rules governing the succession to the throne.
UKIP's secret weapon? By any measure, New Yorker Dick Morris is that thing Americans love over everything else - a winner.
More reforms ahead says Milburn Labour will continue to pursue controversial reforms if it wins a third term in power, the party's election chief Alan Milburn has said.
Teens 'know little' of politics Teenagers questioned for a survey have shown little interest in politics - and have little knowledge.
Defection timed to hit tax pledge With impeccable and precisely-calculated timing, Tory defector Robert Jackson and his new Labour bosses have attempted to overshadow Michael Howard's latest announcement on taxation and spending.
Tory leader unveils spending plan Tory leader Michael Howard says his party can save £35bn in government spending by tackling waste.
Kennedy looks to election gains They may not know quite how to describe their position in British politics - the real opposition, the valid opposition, the effective opposition or the authentic opposition.
'Best person' for top legal job The "best person for the job" should be appointed lord chancellor, and not necessarily a lawyer or MP, the courts minister has told MPs.
The memory driving Brown's mission The memory Gordon Brown says keeps returning to him - the one that he says is burnt into him - is that of a 12 year-old girl, whose parents died of Aids, and who is HIV positive herself.
Howard dismisses Tory tax fears Michael Howard has dismissed fears from some Conservatives that his plans for £4bn tax cuts are too modest.
Donor attacks Blair-Brown 'feud' The reported feud between Tony Blair and Gordon Brown has prompted a Labour donor to say he will almost certainly refuse to give more funds.
Howard and Blair tax pledge clash Tony Blair has said voters will have to wait for Labour's manifesto to see if the party has plans to increase tax.
What really divides the parties So what is the gap between Labour and the Tories nowadays?
Amnesty chief laments war failure The lack of public outrage about the war on terror is a powerful indictment of the failure of human rights groups, Amnesty International's chief has said.
Blair sees greater Bush consensus George W Bush will display a more consensual approach to world politics as he begins his second term as US President, Tony Blair has said.
Kilroy-Silk quits 'shameful' UKIP Ex-chat show host Robert Kilroy-Silk has quit the UK Independence Party and accused it of betraying its supporters.
Blair blasts Tory spending plans Tony Blair has launched an attack on Conservative spending plans, saying they are a "ludicrous improbability".
Lib Dems' 'bold' election policy Charles Kennedy has told voters his Liberal Democrats will offer them an "honest choice" at the next general election.
Kennedy's cautious optimism Charles Kennedy is far too canny to make any grand claims about how his party may fare at the general election.
Hague 'given up' his PM ambition Former Conservative leader William Hague says he will not stand for the leadership again, having given up his ambition to be prime minister.
UKIP candidate suspended in probe Eurosceptic party UKIP have suspended a candidate for allegedly suggesting the criminally insane should be killed.
Boothroyd calls for Lords speaker Betty Boothroyd has said the House of Lords needs its own Speaker and that peers should lead the way on reforming the upper chamber.
New UKIP defection to 'Veritas' The UK Independence Party has lost one of its two London Assembly members to Robert Kilroy-Silk's new political party, expected to launch on Wednesday.
Baron Kinnock makes Lords debut Former Labour leader Neil Kinnock has officially been made a life peer during a ceremony in the House of Lords.
Terror powers expose 'tyranny' The Lord Chancellor has defended government plans to introduce control orders to keep foreign and British terrorist suspects under house arrest, where there isn't enough evidence to put them on trial.
'Super union' merger plan touted Two of Britain's big trade unions could merge to form a "super union" of two million members.
UKIP MEP attacked German 'empire' A UK Independence Party MEP suggested Germany saw the EU as an 'empire' and was cheaper than using tanks, a new documentary has revealed. Mike Nattrass, UKIP's deputy leader, made the comments to an audience at a meeting during last September's Hartlepool by-election campaign. But challenged on the remark, he denied accusing Germany of using the EU as cover for a "4th German Reich". He says he was not "German-bashing" but saying peace was the EU's founding aim. The meeting was shown in a BBC 3 film on ex-UKIP MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk. The former chat show host quit the party earlier this month, calling it a joke.
Kilroy launches 'Veritas' party Ex-BBC chat show host and East Midlands MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk said he wanted to "change the face of British politics" as he launched his new party. Mr Kilroy-Silk, who recently quit the UK Independence Party, said "our country" was being "stolen from us" by mass immigration. He told a London news conference that Veritas - Latin for "truth" - would avoid the old parties' "lies and spin". UKIP leader Roger Knapman says he is glad to see the back of Mr Kilroy-Silk.
Civil servants in strike ballot The UK's biggest civil service union is to ballot its 290,000 members on strikes in protest at government plans to extend their pension age to 65.
Blair Labour's longest-serving PM Tony Blair has become the Labour Party's longest-serving prime minister.
Tories leave door open for Archer The Conservative Party would deal "sympathetically" with any application by disgraced peer Lord Archer to rejoin its ranks, its co-chairman has said.
Mandelson warns BBC on Campbell The BBC should steer away from "demonising" ex-Downing Street media chief Alastair Campbell, Peter Mandelson has said.
'Debate needed' on donations cap A cap on donations to political parties should not be introduced yet, the elections watchdog has said.
Conservative backing for ID cards The Tories are to back controversial government plans to introduce ID cards.
Howard denies split over ID cards Michael Howard has denied his shadow cabinet was split over its decision to back controversial Labour plans to introduce ID cards.
Taxes must be trusted - Kennedy Public trust in taxes is breaking down because Labour and Tories are not being straight with people on the issue, Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy has said.
Galloway targets 'New Labour' MP George Galloway is to stand against pro-Iraq war Labour MP Oona King at the next general election.
Election deal faltered over Heath role The Tories failed to hold onto power in 1974 after Liberals demanded Sir Edward Heath quit in return for co-operation.
UKIP outspent Labour on EU poll The UK Independence Party outspent both Labour and the Liberal Democrats in the European elections, new figures show.
Labour battle plan 'hides Blair' The Tories have accused Tony Blair of being "terrified" of scrutiny after Labour unveiled details of how it will fight the next general election.
Campbell returns to election team Ex-Downing Street media chief Alastair Campbell will return to the fold to strengthen Labour's general election campaign, the party has confirmed.
Conservative MP defects to Labour A Conservative MP and former minister has defected to Labour.
Tory 'stalking horse' Meyer dies Sir Anthony Meyer, the Tory backbencher who challenged Margaret Thatcher for the party leadership in 1989, has died.
UK youth 'interested' in politics The majority of young people are interested in politics, holding "strong opinions" on policies and have a "keen appetite" for direct action.
MPs issued with Blackberry threat MPs will be thrown out of the Commons if they use Blackberries in the chamber Speaker Michael Martin has ruled.
Talks aim to avert pension strike Talks aimed at averting a series of national strikes over pensions reforms will take place this weekend.
Stalemate in pension strike talks Talks aimed at averting national strikes over pension reforms have ended without agreement after 90 minutes.
Parties warned over 'grey vote' Political parties cannot afford to take older UK voters for granted in the coming election, says Age Concern.
Blair to face trust issue head on Tony Blair says he will be facing the issue of trust and his own integrity head on during the election campaign.
CSA chief who 'quit' still in job The head of the "failing" Child Support Agency widely reported to have resigned three months ago is still at the helm of the troubled organisation.
Blair moves to woo Jewish voters Tony Blair has pledged to "never, ever, ever" attack Tory leader Michael Howard over his Jewish beliefs.
Parties' plans for council tax Anger at council tax rises spilled over into mass protests in 2003, when the average English bill rose 12.9%.
Labour in constituency race row Labour's choice of a white candidate for one of the UK's most multi-racial seats proves the need for all-black short lists, says a race group.
MPs tout Lords replacement plan A group of MPs has tried to raise the pressure on Tony Blair over reform to the House of Lords by publishing a detailed blueprint for change.
Hague's six-figure earnings shown The rewards of leaving front-bench politics are shown in the latest annual register of members' interests.
Schools to take part in mock poll Record numbers of schools across the UK are to take part in a mock general election backed by the government.
Parties build up poll war chests The Labour Party received more than £5m in donations in the final quarter of 2004, new figures show.
Kennedy predicts bigger turnout Voters' "pent up passion" could confound predictions of a low turnout in the coming general election, Charles Kennedy has said.
Iraq advice claim sparks new row The Tories say ministers must respond in Parliament to claims that the legal advice used to justify the Iraq war was drawn up at Number 10.
UKIP could sue Veritas defectors The UK Independence Party could take legal action to unseat two London Assembly members who defected to Robert Kilroy Silk's Veritas Party.
Prime minister's questions So who, if anyone, is playing politics with the security of the nation?
Goldsmith denies war advice claim The attorney general has denied his statement to Parliament about the legality of the Iraq war was drafted by Downing Street officials.
Goldsmith: 'I was not leant on' The attorney general has again denied being "leant on" by Downing Street to make the legal case for invading Iraq.
Tory expert denies defeat warning The Conservatives' campaign director has denied a report claiming he warned Michael Howard the party could not win the next general election.
Manchester wins Labour conference The Labour Party will hold its 2006 autumn conference in Manchester and not Blackpool, it has been confirmed.
Labour attacked on Howard poster Labour has been accused of using anti-Semitic images in posters which critics claim depict Tory leader Michael Howard as Fagin.
Milburn defends poster campaign Labour's election chief Alan Milburn has defended his party's campaign posters amid Tory claims the ads were nothing short of "sly anti-Semitism".
Kilroy names election seat target Ex-chat show host Robert Kilroy-Silk is to contest the Derbyshire seat of Erewash at the next general election.
Immigration to be election issue Immigration and asylum have normally been issues politicians from the big parties have tiptoed around at election time.
Kennedy begins pre-election tour Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy has begun a week-long tour to persuade voters they are the "real opposition".
Labour's core support takes stock Tony Blair has told Labour supporters he's "back" and still hungry for the job of prime minister - but does that sum up the mood at the party's spring conference in Gateshead?
Campaign 'cold calls' questioned Labour and the Conservatives are still telephoning the millions of people who have signed up to make sure they do not get marketing "cold calls".
Lib Dems highlight problem debt People vulnerable to problem debts should be afforded greater protection from banks aggressively promoting financial products, the Lib Dems say.
Lib Dems target first-time buyers The Liberal Democrats have unveiled plans to build 100,000 new "affordable" homes on publicly owned land.
Lib Dems unveil women's manifesto The Liberal Democrats are attempting to woo female voters with the launch of their manifesto for women.
Kennedy questions trust of Blair Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy has said voters now have a "fundamental lack of trust" of Tony Blair as prime minister.
Brown outlines third term vision Gordon Brown has outlined what he thinks should be the key themes of New Labour's next general election bid.
Labour's Cunningham to stand down Veteran Labour MP and former Cabinet minister Jack Cunningham has said he will stand down at the next election.
Will Tory tax cuts lift spirits? Michael Howard has finally revealed the full scale of his planned Tory tax cuts.
Teenagers to be allowed to be MPs Teenagers will be able to become MPs under plans unveiled by ministers.
Labour's four little words Labour has unveiled the four little words that will form the heart of its general election campaign which, for those just returned from the planet Galifray, is "looming".
Tories outlining policing plans Local communities would be asked to go to the polls to elect their own area police commissioner, under plans unveiled by the Conservatives.
TV debate urged for party chiefs Broadcasters should fix a date for a pre-election televised debate between the three main political leaders, according to the Hansard Society.
Chancellor rallies Labour voters Gordon Brown has issued a rallying cry to supporters, warning the "stakes are too high" to stay at home or protest vote in the next general election.
Brown 'proud of economy record' Gordon Brown has delivered a rousing speech to Labour's spring conference setting out the government's agenda for the next general election.
Fox attacks Blair's Tory 'lies' Tony Blair lied when he took the UK to war so has no qualms about lying in the election campaign, say the Tories.
Blair joins school sailing trip The prime minister has donned a life jacket and joined school children in a sailing dinghy as he sought to sell his party's education policies.
Analysis: No pain, no gain? He called it his "masochism strategy" in the run-up to the Iraq war and now Tony Blair has signed up for another dose of pain.
Brown names 16 March for Budget Chancellor Gordon Brown will deliver his Budget to the House of Commons on 16 March, the Treasury has announced.
Lib Dems stress Budget trust gap Public trust in the handling of the economy can only be restored if Gordon Brown opens up his books for unbiased inspection, say the Lib Dems.
Blair backs 'pre-election budget' Tony Blair has backed Chancellor Gordon Brown's pre-Budget report amid opposition claims he was too bullish about the state of the UK economy.
Cabinet anger at Brown cash raid Ministers are unhappy about plans to use Whitehall cash to keep council tax bills down, local government minister Nick Raynsford has acknowledged.
'UK will stand firm on EU rebate' Britain's £3bn EU rebate is not up for renegotiation at next week's European Council summit, Jack Straw said.
Brown ally rejects Budget spree Chancellor Gordon Brown's closest ally has denied suggestions there will be a Budget giveaway on 16 March.
Will the Budget bring out smiling voters? As Tory spokesman Oliver Letwin said - any chancellor would use his pre-election budget to offer some vote winning sweeteners, wouldn't he.
Budget to set scene for election Gordon Brown will seek to put the economy at the centre of Labour's bid for a third term in power when he delivers his ninth Budget at 1230 GMT. He is expected to stress the importance of continued economic stability, with low unemployment and interest rates. The chancellor is expected to freeze petrol duty and raise the stamp duty threshold from £60,000. But the Conservatives and Lib Dems insist voters face higher taxes and more means-testing under Labour.
Brown comes out shooting Labour may have abolished hunting - but that didn't stop Chancellor Gordon Brown using his Budget to fire both barrels at some of the opposition parties' core election foxes.
Kennedy criticises 'unfair' taxes Gordon Brown has failed to tackle the "fundamental unfairness" in the tax system in his ninth Budget, Charles Kennedy has said.
Howard attacks 'pay later' Budget Tory leader Michael Howard has dismissed Gordon Brown's Budget as "vote now, pay later" spending plans.
Whitehall cuts 'ahead of target' Thousands of civil service jobs have already been cut or moved out of London as part of a major cost-cutting drive.
Brown calls for £5.5bn Aids fund Gordon Brown has called on rich nations to fund a £5.5bn ($10bn) plan to fight the Aids epidemic and find a vaccine.
UK heading wrong way, says Howard Tony Blair has had the chance to tackle the problems facing Britain and has failed, Michael Howard has said.
Act on detention ruling, UK urged The government must act quickly on the Law Lords' ruling that detention of foreign terror suspects without trial is unlawful, Mary Robinson has said.
BAA support ahead of court battle UK airport operator BAA has reiterated its support for the government's aviation expansion plans to airports throughout the country.
UK 'discriminated against Roma' The government's immigration rules racially discriminated against Roma (Gypsies) seeking entry into the UK, the Law Lords have ruled.
Howard pitches for UK ethnic vote Michael Howard is to make a pitch for Britain's ethnic vote urging people who feel "taken for granted" by Tony Blair to vote Conservative.
Observers to monitor UK election Ministers will invite international observers to check the forthcoming UK general election is fairly run.
UK rebate 'unjustified' - Chirac French president Jacques Chirac has called the UK's £3bn rebate from the European Union "unjustified".
UK needs tax cuts, Tories insist A major change of direction is needed in Britain if it is to prosper, the shadow chancellor said as the Tory Party spring conference began.
Brown targets OAPs and homebuyers Gordon Brown has doubled the level at which house buyers pay stamp duty to £120,000 as he put the economy at the heart of Labour's election campaign.
MPs demand 'Budget leak' answers Ministers have been asked to explain how Budget details were printed in a London newspaper half an hour before Gordon Brown made his speech.
US casino 'tricks' face ban in UK Controversial new UK casinos will be banned from using American tricks of the trade to ensure they are "socially responsible", it has been suggested.
Blair defends terror law changes The prime minister has defended measures to allow house arrest without trial, saying "several hundred" people in the UK are plotting terror attacks.
Election 'could be terror target' Terrorists might try to target the UK in the run-up to the election, London's most senior police officer has said.
Minimum wage increased to £5.05 The minimum wage will rise in October, benefiting more than 1m people, the government has announced.
Hunt ban support is 'in decline' Support for a ban on hunting has fallen in the past six years, a poll suggests.
At a glance: Tory health checks The UK' opposition Conservatives have unveiled plans to introduce health checks for immigrants if they win the General Election. Here's a guide to the plan:
Labour accused of 'EU propaganda' A "taxpayer subsidised propaganda exercise" on the EU is being used to lull the British public into a false sense of security, say the Tories.
Terror suspects face house arrest UK citizens suspected of involvement in terrorism could face house arrest as part of a series of new measures outlined by the home secretary.
UK pledges £1bn to vaccine effort UK Chancellor Gordon Brown has offered £960m ($1.8bn) over 15 years to an international scheme aiming to boost vaccination and immunisation schemes.
Straw backs ending China embargo UK Foreign Secretary Jack Straw has defended plans to end the European Union's arms embargo on China, despite opposition from the US and Japan.
Pre-poll clash on tax and spend Labour and the Tories have clashed over tax and spending plans as the row over Gordon Brown's Budget turned into a full scale pre-election battle.
Plan to give elderly care control Elderly and disabled people would choose how their own budget for personal care was spent and organised under government plans.
EU rules 'won't stop UK spending' The shape of the UK's economy In graphics
Child access law shake-up planned Parents who refuse to allow former partners contact with their children could be electronically tagged under plans being considered by ministers.
'EU referendum could cost £80m' It could cost £80m to run a UK referendum on the European constitution, ministers have revealed.
'No UK apology' for colonial past The days of Britain having to apologise for its colonial past are over, Gordon Brown has said.
Parliament's record of scandal In a locked room at the heart of Parliament there is a hive of scandal.
Economy focus for election battle Britain's economic future will be at the heart of Labour's poll campaign, Chancellor Gordon Brown has said.
Blair ready to call election Tony Blair seems certain to end weeks of phoney war on Monday and announce there will be a general election on 5 May.
Labour faces 'cold calls' inquiry Labour is to be investigated by a watchdog over claims its election campaign has broken the rules on "cold calling" householders.
Blunkett hints at election call Ex-Home Secretary David Blunkett has given fresh clues that the general election will be announced on Monday.
Lib Dems predict 'best ever poll' The Lib Dems are set for their best results in both the general election and the local council polls, one of their frontbenchers has predicted.
Tories reject rethink on axed MP Sacked MP Howard Flight's local Conservative association has insisted he will not be its candidate at the general election.
Ex-PM Lord Callaghan dies aged 92 Former Labour prime minister Lord Callaghan has died on the eve of his 93rd birthday.
Blair prepares to name poll date Tony Blair is likely to name 5 May as election day when Parliament returns from its Easter break, the BBC's political editor has learned.
Brown's poll campaign move denied The government has denied reports that Gordon Brown is preparing to oust Alan Milburn as Labour's election supremo.
Voters 'don't trust politicians' Eight out of 10 voters do not trust politicians to tell the truth, a new poll conducted for the BBC suggests.
Tory candidate quits over remark A Conservative election challenger is quitting after being quoted as wanting a "period of creative destruction in the public services".
Abortion not a poll issue - Blair Tony Blair does not believe abortion should be an election issue, arguing it is a matter for individual conscience.
Profile: Gordon Brown The ultimate prize of 10 Downing Street may continue to elude him but, as he prepares to deliver a record-breaking ninth budget, Gordon Brown can at least console himself with the thought that he is the longest serving chancellor of modern times.
Boateng to step down at election Paul Boateng, Chief Secretary to the Treasury, is to step down as a Labour MP at the forthcoming general election.
Howard hits back at mongrel jibe Michael Howard has said a claim by Peter Hain that the Tory leader is acting like an "attack mongrel" shows Labour is "rattled" by the opposition.
Tories urge 'change at the top' Tory delegates are gathering for what is expected to be their last conference before the general election, declaring Britain needs "a change at the top".
Sayeed to stand down as Tory MP Tory MP Jonathan Sayeed is to stand down on the grounds of ill health.
Howard's unfinished business "He's not finished yet," whispered the Conservative Party person as your reporter attempted to slip quietly from the hall. And indeed he wasn't. Michael Howard had already broken away from the printed text of his speech, at his party's spring conference in Brighton, to deliver a smart rebuff to Peter Hain's description of him as an "attack mongrel", claiming such personal abuse meant Labour was "rattled" by the Tory challenge. And here he was again, moving to the front of the stage as the party faithful rose to their feet in applause, to make a personal, ad-libbed appeal to them to go out and fight for victory. "One day you will be able to tell your children and grandchildren as I will tell mine, 'I was there. I did my bit. I played my part. I helped to win that famous election - the election that transformed our country for the better'." The speech, which was peppered with references to Mr Howard's humble beginnings as the "child of immigrants", had been introduced by his son Nick, a trainee vicar, who praised his father's honesty. "I always know where I am with him because all my life he has meant what he has said to me," he said. Mr Howard was also joined on stage by his wife Sandra, daughter Larissa and stepson Sholto.
'Last chance' warning for voters People in England, Scotland and Wales must have registered by 1700 GMT to be able to vote in the general election if it is held, as expected, on 5 May.
Sainsbury's Labour election gift Science Minister Lord Sainsbury has made a £2m donation to the Labour Party for its General Election fund.
Blair 'up for it' ahead of poll Tony Blair says his personal standing in the eyes of voters will be "an issue" in the general election.
Labour MP praises Tory campaign The Conservatives have been "a lot smarter" in the way they have conducted the general election campaign, a Labour backbencher has said.
Top Tories on Lib Dem 'hit list' The Liberal Democrats are aiming to unseat a string of top Tories - including leader Michael Howard - at the next general election.
Lib Dems unveil election slogan The Liberal Democrats will present themselves as "the real alternative" in the forthcoming general election campaign, Charles Kennedy has said.
%%%tech
Ink helps drive democracy in Asia The Kyrgyz Republic, a small, mountainous state of the former Soviet republic, is using invisible ink and ultraviolet readers in the country's elections as part of a drive to prevent multiple voting.
China net cafe culture crackdown Chinese authorities closed 12,575 net cafes in the closing months of 2004, the country's government said.
Microsoft seeking spyware trojan Microsoft is investigating a trojan program that attempts to switch off the firm's anti-spyware software.
Digital guru floats sub-$100 PC Nicholas Negroponte, chairman and founder of MIT's Media Labs, says he is developing a laptop PC that will go on sale for less than $100 (£53).
Technology gets the creative bug The hi-tech and the arts worlds have for some time danced around each other and offered creative and technical help when required.
Wi-fi web reaches farmers in Peru A network of community computer centres, linked by wireless technology, is providing a helping hand for poor farmers in Peru.
Microsoft releases bumper patches Microsoft has warned PC users to update their systems with the latest security fixes for flaws in Windows programs.
Virus poses as Christmas e-mail Security firms are warning about a Windows virus disguising itself as an electronic Christmas card.
Apple laptop is 'greatest gadget' The Apple Powerbook 100 has been chosen as the greatest gadget of all time, by US magazine Mobile PC.
Google's toolbar sparks concern Search engine firm Google has released a trial tool which is concerning some net users because it directs people to pre-selected commercial websites.
UK net users leading TV downloads British TV viewers lead the trend of illegally downloading US shows from the net, according to research.
IBM puts cash behind Linux push IBM is spending $100m (£52m) over the next three years beefing up its commitment to Linux software.
UK pioneers digital film network The world's first digital cinema network will be established in the UK over the next 18 months.
EU software patent law faces axe The European Parliament has thrown out a bill that would have allowed software to be patented.
Xbox power cable 'fire fear' Microsoft has said it will replace more than 14 million power cables for its Xbox consoles due to safety concerns.
Global blogger action day called The global web blog community is being called into action to lend support to two imprisoned Iranian bloggers.
Finding new homes for old phones Re-using old mobile phones is not just good for the environment, it has social benefits too.
PlayStation 3 chip to be unveiled Details of the chip designed to power Sony's PlayStation 3 console will be released in San Francisco on Monday.
Intel unveils laser breakthrough Intel has unveiled research that could mean data is soon being moved around chips at the speed of light.
Security scares spark browser fix Microsoft is working on a new version of its Internet Explorer web browser.
Britons fed up with net service A survey conducted by PC Pro Magazine has revealed that many Britons are unhappy with their internet service.
Sun offers processing by the hour Sun Microsystems has launched a pay-as-you-go service which will allow customers requiring huge computing power to rent it by the hour.
Lasers help bridge network gaps An Indian telecommunications firm has turned to lasers to help it overcome the problems of setting up voice and data networks in the country.
Game firm holds 'cast' auditions Video game firm Bioware is to hold open auditions for people to become cast members for future games.
Sony PSP console hits US in March US gamers will be able to buy Sony's PlayStation Portable from 24 March, but there is no news of a Europe debut.
Warnings about junk mail deluge The amount of spam circulating online could be about to undergo a massive increase, say experts.
Warning over tsunami aid website Net users are being told to avoid a scam website that claims to collect cash on behalf of tsunami victims.
Piero gives rugby perspective BBC Sport unveils its new analysis tool Piero at the Wales v England rugby union match on Saturday. But what does it do and how does it work?
Open source leaders slam patents The war of words between Microsoft and the open source movement heated up this week as Linux founder Linus Torvalds led an attack on software patents.
Reboot ordered for EU patent law A European Parliament committee has ordered a rewrite of the proposals for controversial new European Union rules which govern computer-based inventions.
Solutions to net security fears Fake bank e-mails, or phishing, and stories about ID theft are damaging the potential of using the net for online commerce, say e-business experts.
Mobile networks seek turbo boost Third-generation mobile (3G) networks need to get faster if they are to deliver fast internet surfing on the move and exciting new services.
Global digital divide 'narrowing' The "digital divide" between rich and poor nations is narrowing fast, according to a World Bank report.
UK gets official virus alert site A rapid alerting service that tells home computer users about serious internet security problems is being launched by the UK government.
Iran jails blogger for 14 years An Iranian weblogger has been jailed for 14 years on charges of spying and aiding foreign counter-revolutionaries.
Microsoft seeking spyware trojan Microsoft is investigating a trojan program that attempts to switch off the firm's anti-spyware software.
US woman sues over cartridges A US woman is suing Hewlett Packard (HP), saying its printer ink cartridges are secretly programmed to expire on a certain date.
Movie body hits peer-to-peer nets The movie industry has struck out at file-sharing networks with another round of lawsuits in the US.
Security warning over 'FBI virus' The US Federal Bureau of Investigation is warning that a computer virus is being spread via e-mails that purport to be from the FBI.
Apple iPod family expands market Apple has expanded its iPod family with the release of its next generation of the digital music players.
T-Mobile bets on 'pocket office' T-Mobile has launched its latest "pocket office" third-generation (3G) device which also has built-in wi-fi - high-speed wireless net access.
Hotspot users gain free net calls People using wireless net hotspots will soon be able to make free phone calls as well as surf the net.
DVD copy protection strengthened DVDs will be harder to copy thanks to new anti-piracy measures devised by copy protection firm Macrovision.
Apple attacked over sources row Civil liberties group the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) has joined a legal fight between three US online journalists and Apple.
Sony PSP tipped as a 'must-have' Sony's Playstation Portable is the top gadget for 2005, according to a round-up of ultimate gizmos compiled by Stuff Magazine.
BBC leads interactive Bafta wins The BBC and the National Theatre have led the field at this year's Interactive Bafta awards.
Millions buy MP3 players in US One in 10 adult Americans - equivalent to 22 million people - owns an MP3 player, according to a survey.
'No re-draft' for EU patent law A proposed European law on software patents will not be re-drafted by the European Commission (EC) despite requests by MEPs.
Domain system scam fear A system to make it easier to create website addresses using alphabets like Cyrillic could open a back door for scammers, a trade body has warned.
Cheaper chip for mobiles A mobile phone chip which combines a modem and a computer processor on one bit of silicon instead of two could make phones cheaper and more powerful.
Blind student 'hears in colour' A blind student has developed software that turns colours into musical notes so that he can read weather maps.
Xbox 2 may be unveiled in summer Details of the next generation of Microsoft's Xbox games console - codenamed Xenon - will most likely be unveiled in May, according to reports.
Microsoft launches its own search Microsoft has unveiled the finished version of its home-grown search engine.
Moving mobile improves golf swing A mobile phone that recognises and responds to movements has been launched in Japan.
Junk e-mails on relentless rise Spam traffic is up by 40%, putting the total amount of e-mail that is junk up to an astonishing 90%.
Sporting rivals go to extra time The current slew of sports games offers unparalleled opportunities for fans who like to emulate on-field action without ever moving from the couch.
Half-Life 2 sweeps Bafta awards PC first person shooter Half-Life 2 has won six Bafta Awards, including best game and best online game.
BT boosts its broadband packages British Telecom has said it will double the broadband speeds of most of its home and business customers.
Mobiles 'not media players yet' Mobiles are not yet ready to be all-singing, all-dancing multimedia devices which will replace portable media players, say two reports.
Microsoft releases patches Microsoft has warned PC users to update their systems with the latest security fixes for flaws in Windows programs.
Concern over RFID tags Consumers are very concerned about the use of radio frequency ID (RFID) tags in shops, a survey says.
Ask Jeeves joins web log market Ask Jeeves has bought the Bloglines website to improve the way it handles content from web journals or blogs.
Digital guru floats sub-$100 PC Nicholas Negroponte, chairman and founder of MIT's Media Labs, says he is developing a laptop PC that will go on sale for less than $100 (£53).
Looks and music to drive mobiles Mobile phones are still enjoying a boom time in sales, according to research from technology analysts Gartner.
Yahoo celebrates a decade online Yahoo, one of the net's most iconic companies, is celebrating its 10th anniversary this week.
Kenyan school turns to handhelds At the Mbita Point primary school in western Kenya students click away at a handheld computer with a stylus.
Tough rules for ringtone sellers Firms that flout rules on how ringtones and other mobile extras are sold could be cut off from all UK phone networks.
Creator of first Apple Mac dies Jef Raskin, head of the team behind the first Macintosh computer, has died.
'Friends fear' with lost mobiles People are becoming so dependent on their mobile phones that one in three are concerned that losing their phone would mean they lose their friends.
Telewest to challenge Sky Plus Cable firm Telewest is to offer a personal video recorder (PVR) in a set -top box to challenge Sky Plus.
Games enter the classroom Video games could soon be transplanted from their natural habitat to the more academic atmosphere of the classroom.
Gadget growth fuels eco concerns Technology firms and gadget lovers are being urged to think more about the environment when buying and disposing of the latest hi-tech products.
'Evil twin' fear for wireless net People using wireless high-speed net (wi-fi) are being warned about fake hotspots, or access points.
China 'to overtake US net use' The Chinese net-using population looks set to exceed that of the US in less than three years, says a report.
US peer-to-peer pirates convicted The first convictions for piracy over peer-to-peer networks have been handed down in the US.
Google launches TV search service The net search giant Google has launched a search service that lets people look for TV programmes.
Rich pickings for hi-tech thieves Viruses, trojans and other malicious programs sent on to the net to catch you out are undergoing a subtle change.
Blog reading explodes in America Americans are becoming avid blog readers, with 32 million getting hooked in 2004, according to new research.
Software watching while you work Software that can not only monitor every keystroke and action performed at a PC but also be used as legally binding evidence of wrong-doing has been unveiled.
New delay hits EU software laws A fresh delay has hit controversial new European Union rules which govern computer-based inventions.
Savvy searchers fail to spot ads Internet search engine users are an odd mix of naive and sophisticated, suggests a report into search habits.
Games firms 'face tough future' UK video game firms face a testing time as they prepare for the next round of games consoles, the industry warns.
Microsoft makes anti-piracy move Microsoft says it is clamping down on people running pirated versions of its Windows operating system by restricting their access to security features.
Nintendo handheld given Euro date Nintendo's new handheld console, the DS, will launch in Europe on 11 March, the company has announced.
Smart search lets art fans browse If you don't know art but know what you like, new search technology could prove a useful gateway to painting.
Warning over Windows Word files Writing a Microsoft Word document can be a dangerous business, according to document security firm Workshare.
Net regulation 'still possible' The blurring of boundaries between TV and the internet raises questions of regulation, watchdog Ofcom has said.
Voters flock to blog awards site Voting is under way for the annual Bloggies which recognise the best web blogs - online spaces where people publish their thoughts - of the year.
Latest Opera browser gets vocal Net browser Opera 8.0, due for official release at the end of next month, will be "the most accessible browser on the market", according to its authors.
Web radio takes Spanish rap global Spin the radio dial in the US and you are likely to find plenty of Spanish-language music. But what you will not find is much Spanish-language hip-hop.
Movie body targets children's PCs The body that represents the US movie industry has released its latest tool in its campaign to clamp down on movie file-sharing, aimed at parents.
Norway upholds 'Napster' ruling A Norwegian student who ran a website which linked to downloadable MP3 files has been ordered to pay compensation by the country's Supreme Court.
The future in your pocket If you are a geek or gadget fan, the next 12 months look like they are going to be a lot of fun.
What high-definition will do to DVDs First it was the humble home video, then it was the DVD, and now Hollywood is preparing for the next revolution in home entertainment - high-definition.
Mobile games come of age The BBC News website takes a look at how games on mobile phones are maturing. A brief round-up follows but you can skip straight to the reviews by clicking on the links below.
California sets fines for spyware The makers of computer programs that secretly spy on what people do with their home PCs could face hefty fines in California.
Web helps collect aid donations The web is helping aid agencies gather resources to help cope with the aftermath of the tsunami disaster.
Mobiles rack up 20 years of use Mobile phones in the UK are celebrating their 20th anniversary this weekend.
Blogs take on the mainstream Web logs or blogs are everywhere, with at least an estimated five million on the web and that number is set to grow.
Honour for UK games maker Leading British computer games maker Peter Molyneux has been made an OBE in the New Year Honours list.
Bush website blocked outside US Surfers outside the US have been unable to visit the official re-election site of President George W Bush.
Blogger grounded by her airline A US airline attendant is fighting for her job after she was suspended over postings on her blog, or online diary.
Camera phones are 'must-haves' Four times more mobiles with cameras in them will be sold in Europe by the end of 2004 than last year, says a report from analysts Gartner.
Games 'deserve a place in class' Computer games could enhance learning and have a legitimate place in the classroom, say researchers.
Nuclear body seeks new tech The computer systems used to monitor the world's nuclear power installations are so outdated that they are hampering the work of inspectors.
Web logs aid disaster recovery Some of the most vivid descriptions of the devastation in southern Asia are on the internet - in the form of web logs or blogs.
Pandas benefit from wireless net The world's dwindling panda population is getting a helping hand from a wireless internet network.
Search wars hit desktop PCs Another front in the on-going battle between Microsoft and Google is about to be opened.
Home phones face unclear future The fixed line phone in your home could soon be an endangered species.
Podcasts mark rise of DIY radio An Apple iPod or other digital music players can hold anything up to 10,000 songs, which is a lot of space to fill.
Sony wares win innovation award Sony has taken the prize for top innovator at the annual awards of PC Pro Magazine.
Portable PlayStation ready to go Sony's PlayStation Portable (PSP) will go on sale in Japan on 12 December.
Viewers to be able to shape TV Imagine editing Titanic down to watch just your favourite bits or cutting out the slushier moments of Star Wars to leave you with a bare bones action-fest.
Games maker fights for survival One of Britain's largest independent game makers, Argonaut Games, has been put up for sale.
Pompeii gets digital make-over The old-fashioned audio tour of historical places could soon be replaced with computer-generated images that bring the site to life.
Fast moving phone bugs appear Security firms are warning about several mobile phone viruses that can spread much faster than similar bugs.
Joke e-mail virus tricks users A virus that disguises itself as a joke is spreading rapidly across the net.
Progress on new internet domains By early 2005 the net could have two new domain names.
Argonaut founder rebuilds empire Jez San, the man behind the Argonaut games group which went into administration a week ago, has bought back most of the company.
Dozens held over ID fraud site Twenty-eight people, including a Briton, have been arrested after a global operation against a website allegedly involved in identity fraud.
Robots learn 'robotiquette' rules Robots are learning lessons on "robotiquette" - how to behave socially - so they can mix better with humans.
Concerns over Windows ATMs Cash machine networks could soon be more susceptible to computer viruses, a security firm has warned.
Attack prompts Bush site block The official re-election site of President George W Bush is blocking visits from overseas users for "security reasons".
Loyalty cards idea for TV addicts Viewers could soon be rewarded for watching TV as loyalty cards come to a screen near you.
The Force is strong in Battlefront The warm reception that has greeted Star Wars: Battlefront is a reflection not of any ingenious innovation in its gameplay, but of its back-to-basics approach and immense nostalgia quotient.
'Ultimate game' award for Doom 3 Sci-fi shooter Doom 3 has blasted away the competition at a major games ceremony, the Golden Joystick awards.
Gadget show heralds MP3 season Partners of those who love their hi-tech gear may want to get their presents in early as experts predict a gadget shortage this Christmas.
Commodore finds new lease of life The once-famous Commodore computer brand could be resurrected after being bought by a US-based digital music distributor.
Broadband in the UK growing fast High-speed net connections in the UK are proving more popular than ever.
Slim PlayStation triples sales Sony PlayStation 2's slimmer shape has proved popular with UK gamers, with 50,000 sold in its first week on sale.
Seamen sail into biometric future The luxury cruise liner Crystal Harmony, currently in the Gulf of Mexico, is the unlikely setting for tests of biometric technology.
US duo in first spam conviction A brother and sister in the US have been convicted of sending hundreds of thousands of unsolicited e-mail messages to AOL subscribers.
US blogger fired by her airline A US airline attendant suspended over "inappropriate images" on her blog - web diary - says she has been fired.
Gates opens biggest gadget fair Bill Gates has opened the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, saying that gadgets are working together more to help people manage multimedia content around the home and on the move.
GTA sequel is criminally good The Grand Theft Auto series of games have set themselves the very highest of standards in recent years, but the newest addition is more than able to live up to an increasingly grand tradition.
BT offers free net phone calls BT is offering customers free internet telephone calls if they sign up to broadband in December.
When invention turns to innovation It is unlikely that future technological inventions are going to have the same kind of transformative impact that they did in the past.
Firefox browser takes on Microsoft Microsoft's Internet Explorer has a serious rival in the long-awaited Firefox 1.0 web browser, which has just been released.
Halo fans' hope for sequel Xbox video game Halo 2 has been released in the US on 9 November, with a UK release two days later. Why is the game among the most anticipated of all time?
Players sought for $1m prize UK gamers are getting a chance to take part in a $1m tournament thanks to one of the country's top teams.
US top of supercomputing charts The US has pushed Japan off the top of the supercomputing chart with IBM's prototype Blue Gene/L machine.
Text messages aid disaster recovery Text messaging technology was a valuable communication tool in the aftermath of the tsunami disaster in Asia.
Putting a face to 'Big Brother' Literally putting a face on technology could be one of the keys to improving our interaction with hi-tech gadgets.
Football Manager scores big time For the past decade or so the virtual football fans among us will have become used to the annual helping of Championship Manager (CM). Indeed, it seems like there has been a CM game for as many years as there have been PCs.
Musicians 'upbeat' about the net Musicians are embracing the internet as a way of reaching new fans and selling more music, a survey has found.
Broadband takes on TV viewing The number of Europeans with broadband has exploded over the past 12 months, with the web eating into TV viewing habits, research suggests.
Freeze on anti-spam campaign A campaign by Lycos Europe to target spam-related websites appears to have been put on hold.
ITunes user sues Apple over iPod A user of Apple's iTunes music service is suing the firm saying it is unfair he can only use an iPod to play songs.
Microsoft gets the blogging bug Software giant Microsoft is taking the plunge into the world of blogging.
Broadband fuels online change Fast web access is encouraging more people to express themselves online, research suggests.
'Blog' picked as word of the year The term "blog" has been chosen as the top word of 2004 by a US dictionary publisher.
New Year's texting breaks record A mobile phone was as essential to the recent New Year's festivities as a party mood and Auld Lang Syne, if the number of text messages sent is anything to go by.
DS aims to touch gamers The mobile gaming industry is set to explode in 2005 with a number of high-profile devices offering a range of gaming and other features such as movie and music playback. Market leader Nintendo, however, is releasing a handheld console that it says will revolutionise the way games are played.
No half measures with Half-Life 2 Could Half-Life 2 possibly live up to the hype? After almost two years of tantalising previews and infuriating delays it's safe to say that this is the most highly-anticipated computer game of all time.
Games win for Blu-ray DVD format The next-generation DVD format Blu-ray is winning more supporters than its rival, according to its backers.
File-swappers ready new network Legal attacks on websites that help people swap pirated films have forced the development of a system that could be harder to shut down.
Online games play with politics After bubbling under for some time, online games broke through onto the political arena in 2004.
Broadband challenges TV viewing The number of Europeans with broadband has exploded over the past 12 months, with the web eating into TV viewing habits, research suggests.
Freeze on anti-spam campaign A campaign by Lycos Europe to target spam-related websites appears to have been put on hold.
Halo 2 sells five million copies Microsoft is celebrating bumper sales of its Xbox sci-fi shooter, Halo 2.
When technology gets personal In 2020, whipping out your mobile phone to make a call will be quaintly pass&#233;. By then phones will be printed directly on to wrists, or other parts of the body, says Ian Pearson, BT's resident futurologist.
Microsoft gets the blogging bug Software giant Microsoft is taking the plunge into the world of blogging.
Doors open at biggest gadget fair Thousands of technology lovers and industry experts have gathered in Las Vegas for the annual Consumer Electronics Show (CES).
Who do you think you are? The real danger is not what happens to your data as it crosses the net, argues analyst Bill Thompson. It is what happens when it arrives at the other end.
'Brainwave' cap controls computer A team of US researchers has shown that controlling devices with the brain is a step closer.
'Brainwave' cap controls computer A team of US researchers has shown that controlling devices with the brain is a step closer.
Europe backs digital TV lifestyle How people receive their digital entertainment in the future could change, following the launch of an ambitious European project.
A decade of good website design The web looks very different today than it did 10 years ago.
2D Metal Slug offers retro fun Like some drill sergeant from the past, Metal Slug 3 is a wake-up call to today's gamers molly-coddled with slick visuals and fancy trimmings.
Casual gaming to 'take off' Games aimed at "casual players" are set to be even bigger in 2005, according to industry experts.
'Ultimate game' award for Doom 3 Sci-fi shooter Doom 3 has blasted away the competition at a major games ceremony, the Golden Joystick awards.
Gadget show heralds MP3 Christmas Partners of those who love their hi-tech gear may want to get their presents in early as experts predict a gadget shortage this Christmas.
Supercomputer breaks speed record The US is poised to push Japan off the top of the supercomputing chart with IBM's prototype Blue Gene/L machine.
Gadgets galore on show at fair The 2005 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas is a geek's paradise with more than 50,000 new gadgets and technologies launched during the four-day event.
Broadband in the UK growing fast High-speed net connections in the UK are proving more popular than ever.
US duo in first spam conviction A brother and sister in the US have been convicted of sending hundreds of thousands of unsolicited e-mail messages to AOL subscribers.
Microsoft debuts security tools Microsoft is releasing tools that clean up PCs harbouring viruses and spyware.
Slimmer PlayStation triple sales Sony PlayStation 2's slimmer shape has proved popular with UK gamers, with 50,000 sold in its first week on sale.
Seamen sail into biometric future The luxury cruise liner Crystal Harmony, currently in the Gulf of Mexico, is the unlikely setting for tests of biometric technology.
US blogger fired by her airline A US airline attendant suspended over "inappropriate images" on her blog - web diary - says she has been fired.
Mobiles double up as bus tickets Mobiles could soon double up as travel cards, with Nokia planning to try out a wireless ticket system on German buses.
Mobile gig aims to rock 3G Forget about going to a crowded bar to enjoy a gig by the latest darlings of the music press.
Consumers 'snub portable video' Consumers want music rather than movies while on the move, says a report.
Learning to love broadband We are reaching the point where broadband is a central part of daily life, at least for some, argues technology analyst Bill Thompson.
Nintendo DS aims to touch gamers The mobile gaming industry is set to explode in 2005 with a number of high-profile devices offering a range of gaming and other features such as movie and music playback. Market leader Nintendo, however, is releasing a handheld console that it says will revolutionise the way games are played.
China 'blocks Google news site' China has been accused of blocking access to Google News by the media watchdog, Reporters Without Borders.
A question of trust and technology A major government department is without e-mail for a week, and technology analyst Bill Thompson wants to know what happened.
Call for action on internet scam Phone companies are not doing enough to warn customers about internet "rogue-dialling" scams, according to premium phone line regulator Icstis.
Screensaver tackles spam websites Net users are getting the chance to fight back against spam websites
First look at PlayStation 3 chip Some details of the chip inside Sony's PlayStation 3 have been revealed.
Online commons to spark debate Online communities set up by the UK government could encourage public debate and build trust, says the Institute of Public Policy Research (IPPR).
Mobile gaming takes off in India Gaming on the move is one of the fastest-growing activities among the tech-savvy in India, says a report.
Gadget market 'to grow in 2005' The explosion in consumer technology is to continue into 2005, delegates at the world's largest gadget show, in Las Vegas, have been told.
Swap offer for pirated Windows XP Computer giant Microsoft has launched a pilot scheme to replace counterfeit versions of Windows XP with legal ones.
Ban hits Half-Life 2 pirates hard About 20,000 people have been banned from playing the Half-Life 2 game.
New browser wins over net surfers The proportion of surfers using Microsoft's Internet Explorer (IE) has dropped to below 90%, say web analysts.
Smartphones suffer Skulls attack Owners of some Nokia smartphones are being warned to watch out for malicious wallpaper.
Musical future for phones Analyst Bill Thompson has seen the future and it is in his son's hands.
Multi-purpose TV aids India Two-thirds of the world's population, 4 billion people, live on $2,000 a year or less.
Computer grid to help the world Your computer can now help solve the world's most difficult health and social problems.
How to make a gigapixel picture The largest digital panoramic photo in the world has been created by researchers in the Netherlands.
Remote control rifle range debuts Soon you could go hunting via the net.
Gangsters dominate gaming chart Video games on consoles and computers proved more popular than ever in 2004.
British Library gets wireless net Visitors to the British Library will be able to get wireless internet access alongside the extensive information available in its famous reading rooms.
UK broadband gets speed injection Broadband's rapid rise continues apace as speeds gear up a notch.
Row brewing over peer-to-peer ads Music download networks are proving popular not just with an audience of youngsters keen to take advantage of free music but with advertisers equally keen to reach out to a captive audience.
How to smash a home computer An executive who froze his broken hard disk thinking it would be fixed has topped a list of the weirdest computer mishaps.
Mobile picture power in your pocket How many times have you wanted to have a camera to hand to catch an unexpected event that would make headlines?
Man auctions ad space on forehead A 20-year-old US man is selling advertising space on his forehead to the highest bidder on website eBay.
Toxic web links help virus spread Virus writers have begun using the power of the web to spread their malicious wares.
Millions to miss out on the net By 2025, 40% of the UK's population will still be without internet access at home, says a study.
Lifestyle 'governs mobile choice' Faster, better or funkier hardware alone is not going to help phone firms sell more handsets, research suggests.
Search sites get closer to users Search sites want to get to know you better.
Anti-spam screensaver scrapped A contentious campaign to bump up the bandwidth bills of spammers by flooding their sites with data has been dropped.
Europe backs digital TV lifestyle How people receive their digital entertainment in the future could change, following the launch of an ambitious European project.
TV future in the hands of viewers With home theatre systems, plasma high-definition TVs, and digital video recorders moving into the living room, the way people watch TV will be radically different in five years' time.
Cyber criminals step up the pace So-called phishing attacks that try to trick people into handing over confidential details have boomed in 2004, say security experts.
Gritty return for Prince of Persia Still basking in the relatively recent glory of last year's Sands Of Time, the dashing Prince of Persia is back in Warrior Within, and in a more bellicose mood than last time.
Disney backs Sony DVD technology A next generation DVD technology backed by Sony has received a major boost.
Britons growing 'digitally obese' Gadget lovers are so hungry for digital data many are carrying the equivalent of 10 trucks full of paper in "weight".
Halo 2 heralds traffic explosion The growing popularity of online gaming could spell problems for net service firms, warns network monitoring company Sandvine.
Media gadgets get moving Pocket-sized devices that let people carry around video and images are set to have a big year in 2005, according to industry experts.
Satellite mapping aids Darfur relief Aid workers trying to house, feed and clothe millions of homeless refugees in the Sudanese region of Darfur are getting a helping hand from advanced mapping technology.
Disney backs Sony DVD technology A next generation DVD technology backed by Sony has received a major boost.
Lifestyle 'governs mobile choice' Faster, better or funkier hardware alone is not going to help phone firms sell more handsets, research suggests.
Millions to miss out on the net By 2025, 40% of the UK's population will still be without internet access at home, says a study.
Spam e-mails tempt net shoppers Computer users across the world continue to ignore security warnings about spam e-mails and are being lured into buying goods, a report suggests.
More power to the people says HP The digital revolution is focused on letting people tell and share their own stories, according to Carly Fiorina, chief of technology giant Hewlett Packard.
Robotic pods take on car design A new breed of wearable robotic vehicles that envelop drivers are being developed by Japanese car giant Toyota.
Hi-tech posters guide commuters Interactive posters are helping Londoners get around the city during the festive season.
Parents face video game lessons Ways of ensuring that parents know which video games are suitable for children are to be considered by the games industry.
BBC web search aids odd queries The BBC's online search engine was used a record amount in 2004, helping with enquires both simple and strange.
2D Metal Slug offers retro fun Like some drill sergeant from the past, Metal Slug 3 is a wake-up call to today's gamers molly-coddled with slick visuals and fancy trimmings.
Mobile multimedia slow to catch on There is no doubt that mobile phones sporting cameras and colour screens are hugely popular. Consumers swapping old phones for slinkier, dinkier versions are thought to be responsible for a 26% increase in the number of phones sold during the third quarter of 2004, according to analysts Gartner More than 167 million handsets were sold between July and September 2004, a period that, according to Gartner analyst Carolina Milanesi is "seldom strong". But although consumers have mobiles that can take and send snaps, sounds and video clips few, so far, are taking the chance to do so.
Internet boom for gift shopping Cyberspace is becoming a very popular destination for Christmas shoppers.
Google to scan famous libraries The libraries of five of the world's most important academic institutions are to be digitised by Google.
Microsoft takes on desktop search Microsoft has entered the desktop search fray, releasing a test version of its tool to find documents, e-mails and other files on a PC hard drive.
Gamers snap up new Sony PSP Gamers have bought almost all of the first batch of Sony's new PlayStation Portable (PSP) games console, which went on sale in Japan on Sunday.
Go-ahead for new internet names The internet could soon have two new domain names, aimed at mobile services and the jobs market.
Set your television to wow Television started off as a magical blurry image. Then came the sharpness, the colour and the widescreen format. Now the TV set is taking another leap forward into a crystal clear future, although those in Europe will have to be patient.
Hollywood to sue net film pirates The US movie industry has launched legal action to sue people who facilitate illegal film downloading.
PC ownership to 'double by 2010' The number of personal computers worldwide is expected to double by 2010 to 1.3 billion machines, according to a report by analysts Forrester Research.
PC photo printers challenge pros Home printed pictures can be cheaper and higher quality than those from High Street developers, tests shows.
The gaming world in 2005 If you have finished Doom 3, Half Life 2 and Halo 2, don't worry. There's a host of gaming gems set for release in 2005.
Bond game fails to shake or stir For gaming fans, the word GoldenEye evokes excited memories not only of the James Bond revival flick of 1995, but also the classic shoot-em-up that accompanied it and left N64 owners glued to their consoles for many an hour.
Humanoid robot learns how to run Car-maker Honda's humanoid robot Asimo has just got faster and smarter.
Nintendo adds media playing to DS Nintendo is releasing an adapter for its DS handheld console so it can play music and video.
Apple sues to stop product leaks Computer firm Apple has issued a lawsuit to prevent online leaks of information about future products.
Gamer buys $26,500 virtual land A 22-year-old gamer has spent $26,500 (£13,700) on an island that exists only in a computer role-playing game (RPG).
Microsoft sets sights on spyware Windows users could soon be paying Microsoft to keep PCs free of spyware.
Video phone help for deaf people Deaf people who prefer to communicate using British Sign Language (BSL) could soon be having their phone conversations relayed using webcams or videophones and an interpreter.
Virus poses as Christmas e-mail Security firms are warning about a Windows virus disguising itself as an electronic Christmas card.
Fast lifts rise into record books Two high-speed lifts at the world's tallest building have been officially recognised as the planet's fastest.
Broadband in the UK gathers pace One person in the UK is joining the internet's fast lane every 10 seconds, according to BT.
Hollywood campaign hits websites Movie studio efforts to stop pirated films being shared on peer-to-peer networks have claimed a high-profile victim.
Poles play with GameBoy 'blip-pop' A group of artists in Poland has taken the cacophony of blips, boops and beeps created as players bash buttons on Nintendo's handheld GameBoy console to a new level.
Santy worm makes unwelcome visit Thousands of website bulletin boards have been defaced by a virus that used Google to spread across the net.
EU software patent law delayed Controversial new EU rules for the patenting of computer-based inventions have been put on hold due to a last minute intervention from Poland.
Apple sues 'Tiger' file sharers Apple has taken more legal action to stop online leaks of its new products.
Apple unveils low-cost 'Mac mini' Apple has unveiled a new, low-cost Macintosh computer for the masses, billed as the Mac mini.
Speech takes on search engines A Scottish firm is looking to attract web surfers with a search engine that reads out results.
Broadband steams ahead in the US More and more Americans are joining the internet's fast lane, according to official figures.
Napster offers rented music to go Music downloading, for those that have rejected the free peer to peer services, can be a costly business.
Broadband soars in 2004 If broadband were a jumbo jet, then 2003 would have seen it taxiing down the runway, firing up its engines and preparing for take-off. But this year has seen it soar.
Half of UK's mobiles 'go online' Multimedia mobile phones are finally showing signs of taking off, with more Britons using them to go online.
Blinx sequel purrs nicely The original Blinx was intended to convert many platform game lovers to Microsoft's then new Xbox console.
The year search became personal The odds are that when you fire up your browser, you go straight to your favourite search engine, rather than type in a web address.
IBM frees 500 software patents Computer giant IBM says 500 of its software patents will be released into the open development community.
Yahoo moves into desktop search Internet giant Yahoo has launched software to allow people to search e-mail and other files on their PCs.
Rings of steel combat net attacks Gambling is hugely popular, especially with tech-savvy criminals.
US hacker breaks into T-Mobile A man is facing charges of hacking into computers at the US arm of mobile phone firm T-Mobile.
Windows worm travels with Tetris Users are being warned about a Windows virus that poses as the hugely popular Tetris game.
US state acts to stop 'spammers' US state Texas has filed a lawsuit against two men believed to be among the world's top five spammers.
World tour for top video gamers Two UK gamers are about to embark on a world tour as part of the most lucrative-ever global games tournament.
Souped-up wi-fi is on the horizon Super high-speed wireless data networks could soon be in use in the UK.
EA to take on film and TV giants Video game giant Electronic Arts (EA) says it wants to become the biggest entertainment firm in the world.
Tech helps disabled speed demons An organisation has been launched to encourage disabled people to get involved in all aspects of motorsport, which is now increasingly possible thanks to technological innovations.
Web photo storage market hots up An increasing number of firms are offering web storage for people with digital photo collections.
Speak easy plan for media players Music and film fans will be able to control their digital media players just by speaking to them, under plans in development by two US firms.
Cable offers video-on-demand Cable firms NTL and Telewest have both launched video-on-demand services as the battle between satellite and cable TV heats up.
Cyber crime booms in 2004 The last 12 months have seen a dramatic growth in almost every security threat that plague Windows PCs.
Dublin hi-tech labs to shut down Dublin's hi-tech research laboratory, Media Labs Europe, is to shut down.
Games help you 'learn and play' 'God games' in which players must control virtual people and societies could be educational, says research.
Hacker threat to Apple's iTunes Users of Apple's music jukebox iTunes need to update the software to avoid a potential security threat.
Format wars could 'confuse users' Technology firms Sony, Philips, Matsushita and Samsung are developing a common way to stop people pirating digital music and video.
Peer-to-peer nets 'here to stay' Peer-to-peer (P2P) networks are here to stay, and are on the verge of being exploited by commercial media firms, says a panel of industry experts.
Text message record smashed UK mobile owners continue to break records with their text messaging, with latest figures showing that 26 billion texts were sent in total in 2004.
Big war games battle it out The arrival of new titles in the popular Medal Of Honor and Call of Duty franchises leaves fans of wartime battle titles spoilt for choice.
Mobiles rack up 20 years of use Mobile phones in the UK are celebrating their 20th anniversary this weekend.
Fast moving phone viruses appear Security firms are warning about several mobile phone viruses that can spread much faster than similar bugs.
Doors open at biggest gadget fair Thousands of technology lovers and industry experts have gathered in Las Vegas for the annual Consumer Electronics Show (CES).
Microsoft debuts security tools Microsoft is releasing tools that clean up PCs harbouring viruses and spyware.
File-swappers ready new network Legal attacks on websites that help people swap pirated films have forced the development of a system that could be harder to shut down.
Games win for Blu-ray DVD format The next-generation DVD format Blu-ray is winning more supporters than its rival, according to its backers.
More power to the people says HP The digital revolution is focused on letting people tell and share their own stories, according to Carly Fiorina, chief of technology giant Hewlett Packard.
Gadget market 'to grow in 2005' The explosion in consumer technology is to continue into 2005, delegates at the world's largest gadget show, in Las Vegas, have been told.
Apple unveils low-cost 'Mac mini' Apple has unveiled a new, low-cost Macintosh computer for the masses, billed as the Mac mini.
Napster offers rented music to go Music downloading, for those that have rejected the free peer to peer services, can be a costly business.
Rings of steel combat net attacks Gambling is hugely popular, especially with tech-savvy criminals.
Apple Mac mini gets warm welcome The Mac mini has been welcomed by Apple fans, industry experts and PC users.
Rivals of the £400 Apple... The Mac mini is the cheapest Apple computer ever. But though it is cheap for a Mac how does it compare to PCs that cost about the same amount? Dot.life tries to find out if you can you get more for your money if you stick with the beige box.
Speak easy plan for media players Music and film fans will be able to control their digital media players just by speaking to them, under plans in development by two US firms.
US peer-to-peer pirates convicted The first convictions for piracy over peer-to-peer networks have been handed down in the US.
Format wars could 'confuse users' Technology firms Sony, Philips, Matsushita and Samsung are developing a common way to stop people pirating digital music and video.
Mobiles get set for visual radio The growth in the mobile phone market in the past decade has been nothing less than astonishing, but the ability to communicate on the go is not the only reason we are hooked. Games, cameras and music players have all been added to our handsets in the last few years, but 2005 could see another big innovation that won't just see a change in our mobile phone habits - it might alter the way we listen to the radio. Finnish handset giant Nokia has been working on a technology called Visual Radio, which takes an existing FM signal from a radio station and enables that station to add enhancements such as information and pictures. It is not the first time that such an idea has been suggested - the early days of DAB Digital Radio had similar intentions that never really saw the light of day.
Gamers could drive high-definition TV, films, and games have been gearing up for some time now for the next revolution to transform the quality of what is on our screens.
How to make a greener computer The hi-tech industry is starting to get more environmentally aware. Bill Thompson thinks it's about time.
Microsoft makes anti-piracy move Microsoft says it is clamping down on people running pirated versions of its Windows operating system by restricting their access to security features.
What's next for next-gen consoles? The next generation of video games consoles are in development but what will the new machines mean for games firms and consumers? We may not know when they will be released, what they will be called or even what they will be able to do but one thing is certain - they are coming. Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo are all expected to release new machines in the next 18 months. The details of PlayStation 3, Xbox 2 (codename Xenon) and Nintendo's so-called Revolution are still to be finalised but developers are having to work on titles for the new machines regardless.
Latest Opera browser gets vocal Net browser Opera 8.0, due for official release at the end of next month, will be "the most accessible browser on the market", according to its authors.
Mobile games come of age The BBC News website takes a look at how games on mobile phones are maturing. A brief round-up follows but you can skip straight to the reviews by clicking on the links below. Part two will follow on Monday.
Web radio takes Spanish rap global Spin the radio dial in the US and you are likely to find plenty of Spanish-language music. But what you will not find is much Spanish-language hip-hop.
What high-definition will do to DVDs First it was the humble home video, then it was the DVD, and now Hollywood is preparing for the next revolution in home entertainment - high-definition.
Junk e-mails on relentless rise Spam traffic is up by 40%, putting the total amount of e-mail that is junk up to an astonishing 90%.
Warning over tsunami aid website Net users are being told to avoid a scam website that claims to collect cash on behalf of tsunami victims.
More women turn to net security Older people and women are increasingly taking charge of protecting home computers against malicious net attacks, according to a two-year study.
Sony PSP console hits US in March US gamers will be able to buy Sony's PlayStation Portable from 24 March, but there is no news of a Europe debut.
Ask Jeeves joins web log market Ask Jeeves has bought the Bloglines website to improve the way it handles content from web journals or blogs.
Why Cell will get the hard sell The world is casting its gaze on the Cell processor for the first time, but what is so important about it, and why is it so different?
PlayStation 3 processor unveiled The Cell processor, which will drive Sony's PlayStation 3, will run 10-times faster than current PC chips, its designers have said.
Consumer concern over RFID tags Consumers are very concerned about the use of radio frequency ID (RFID) tags in shops, a survey says.
Mobiles 'not media players yet' Mobiles are not yet ready to be all-singing, all-dancing multimedia devices which will replace portable media players, say two reports.
Blind student 'hears in colour' A blind student has developed software that turns colours into musical notes so that he can read weather maps.
Apple attacked over sources row Civil liberties group the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) has joined a legal fight between three US online journalists and Apple.
Mobile audio enters new dimension As mobile phones move closer to being a ubiquitous, all-in-one media player, audio is becoming ever more important. But how good can that sound be from such a small device?
DVD copy protection strengthened DVDs will be harder to copy thanks to new anti-piracy measures devised by copy protection firm Macrovision.
Millions buy MP3 players in US One in 10 adult Americans - equivalent to 22 million people - owns an MP3 player, according to a survey.
Britons fed up with net service A survey conducted by PC Pro Magazine has revealed that many Britons are unhappy with their internet service.
Intel unveils laser breakthrough Intel has said it has found a way to put a silicon-based laser on a chip, raising hopes of much faster networks.
EU software patent law faces axe The European Parliament has thrown out a bill that would have allowed software to be patented.
IBM puts cash behind Linux push IBM is spending $100m (£52m) over the next three years beefing up its commitment to Linux software.
Apple iPod family expands market Apple has expanded its iPod family with the release of its next generation of the digital music players.
US woman sues over ink cartridges A US woman is suing Hewlett Packard (HP), saying its printer ink cartridges are secretly programmed to expire on a certain date.
Security warning over 'FBI virus' The US Federal Bureau of Investigation is warning that a computer virus is being spread via e-mails that purport to be from the FBI.
Mobile networks seek turbo boost Third-generation mobile (3G) networks need to get faster if they are to deliver fast internet surfing on the move and exciting new services.
Mac Mini heralds mini revolution The Mac Mini was launched amid much fanfare by Apple and great excitement by Apple watchers last month. But does the latest Macintosh justify the hype? Let us get a few things dealt with at the outset - yes, the Mac Mini is really, really small, and yes, it is another piece of inspired Apple design. There is more to be said on the computer's size and design but it is worth highlighting that the Mac Mini is a just a computer. Inside that small box there is a G4 processor, a CD/DVD player, a hard drive, some other technical bits and bobs and an operating system. A DVD burner, wireless and bluetooth technologies can be bought at extra cost. And if you do not have a monitor, keyboard or mouse then you will need to purchase those also.
Can Yahoo dominate next decade? Yahoo has reached the grand old age of 10 and, in internet years, that is a long time.
Looks and music to drive mobiles Mobile phones are still enjoying a boom time in sales, according to research from technology analysts Gartner.
Hotspot users gain free net calls People using wireless net hotspots will soon be able to make free phone calls as well as surf the net.
Domain system opens door to scams A system to make it easier to create website addresses using alphabets like Cyrillic could open a back door for scammers, a trade body has warned.
Sony PSP tipped as a 'must-have' Sony's Playstation Portable is the top UK gadget for 2005, according to a round-up of ultimate gizmos compiled by Stuff Magazine.
'No re-draft' for EU patent law A proposed European law on software patents will not be re-drafted by the European Commission (EC) despite requests by MEPs.
Ultra fast wi-fi nears completion Ultra high speed wi-fi connections moved closer to reality on Thursday when Intel said it would list standards for the technology later this year.
Virgin Radio offers 3G broadcast UK broadcaster Virgin Radio says it will become the first station in the world to offer radio via 3G mobiles.
More movies head to Sony's PSP Movies Open Water and Saw are among those to be made available for Sony's PSP games console.
Warnings on woeful wi-fi security Companies are getting worse at keeping their wireless data networks secure.
Cebit opens to mobile music tune Cebit, the world's largest hi-tech fair, has opened its doors in Hanover for a look at the latest technologies for homes and businesses.
Game makers get Xbox 2 sneak peek Microsoft has given game makers a glimpse of the new Xbox 2 console.
Broadband set to revolutionise TV BT is starting its push into television with plans to offer TV over broadband.
Chip maker backs net phone calls Rich Templeton, the head of giant chip maker Texas Instruments, has given his backing to the growing sector of Voice over Internet Telephony (Voip)
Nintendo DS makes its Euro debut Nintendo's DS handheld game console has officially gone on sale in Europe.
Slow start to speedy net services Faster broadband in the UK is becoming a reality as more internet providers offer super-fast services.
Anti-tremor mouse stops PC shakes A special adaptor that helps people with hand tremors control a computer mouse more easily has been developed.
The pirates with no profit motive Two men who were part of a huge network of internet software pirates, known as Drink Or Die, have been convicted at the Old Bailey. BBC News investigates how the network worked and what motivated those involved.
Apple makes blogs reveal sources Apple has won its legal fight to make three bloggers reveal who told them about unreleased products.
Hitachi unveils 'fastest robot' Japanese electronics firm Hitachi has unveiled its first humanoid robot, called Emiew, to challenge Honda's Asimo and Sony's Qrio robots.
Have hackers recruited your PC? More than one million computers on the net have been hijacked to attack websites and pump out spam and viruses.
What price for 'trusted PC security'? You can now buy "trusted computers", but can we really trust the PC vendors, asks technology analyst Bill Thompson.
Gizmondo gadget hits the shelves The Gizmondo combined media player, phone and gaming gadget goes on sale on Saturday.
Confusion over high-definition TV Now that a critical mass of people have embraced digital TV, DVDs, and digital video recorders, the next revolution for TV is being prepared for our sets.
Digital UK driven by net and TV The UK's adoption of digital TV and broadband has helped make it the fourth most digitally-savvy nation in Europe, according a report by Jupiter Research.
Bad e-mail habits sustains spam The 'bad behaviour' of e-mail users is helping to sustain the spam industry, a new study has found.
Sony PSP handheld console hits US The latest handheld gaming gadget, Sony's PlayStation Portable, goes on sale in the US on Thursday.
'Podcasters' look to net money Nasa is doing it, 14-year-old boys in bedrooms are doing it, couples are doing it, gadget lovers - male and female - are definitely doing it.
Local net TV takes off in Austria An Austrian village is testing technology that could represent the future of television.
Rolling out next generation's net The body that oversees how the net works, grows and evolves says it has coped well with its growth in the last 10 years, but it is just the start.
Long life promised for laptop PCs Scientists are working on ways to ensure laptops can stay powered for an entire working day.
Net fingerprints combat attacks Eighty large net service firms have switched on software to spot and stop net attacks automatically.
Microsoft plans 'safer ID' system Microsoft is planning to make Windows and Internet Explorer more secure by including software to give people more control over personal information.
Court mulls file-sharing future Judges at the US Supreme Court have been hearing evidence for and against file-sharing networks.
France starts digital terrestrial France has become the last big European country to launch a digital terrestrial TV (DTT) service.
Text message record smashed again UK mobile owners continue to break records with their text messaging, with latest figures showing that 26 billion texts were sent in total in 2004.
Software watching while you work Software that can not only monitor every keystroke and action performed at a PC but also be used as legally binding evidence of wrong-doing has been unveiled.
Commodore finds new lease of life The once-famous Commodore computer brand could be resurrected after being bought by a US-based digital music distributor.
Cabs collect mountain of mobiles Gadgets are cheaper, smaller and more common than ever. But that just means we are more likely to lose them.
T-Mobile bets on 'pocket office' T-Mobile has launched its latest "pocket office" third-generation (3G) device which also has built-in wi-fi - high-speed wireless net access.
California sets fines for spyware The makers of computer programs that secretly spy on what people do with their home PCs could face hefty fines in California.
Mobile TV tipped as one to watch Scandinavians and Koreans, two of the most adventurous groups of mobile users, are betting on mobile TV.
Apple laptop is 'greatest gadget' The Apple Powerbook 100 has been chosen as the greatest gadget of all time, by US magazine Mobile PC.
Sun offers processing by the hour Sun Microsystems has launched a pay-as-you-go service which will allow customers requiring huge computing power to rent it by the hour.
Kenyan school turns to handhelds At the Mbita Point primary school in western Kenya students click away at a handheld computer with a stylus.
Tough rules for ringtone sellers Firms that flout rules on how ringtones and other mobile extras are sold could be cut off from all UK phone networks.
Mobile music challenges 'iPod age' Nokia and Microsoft have agreed a deal to work on delivery of music to handsets, while Sony Ericsson has unveiled its phone Walkman and Motorola is working on an iTunes phone.
China 'ripe' for media explosion Asia is set to drive global media growth to 2008 and beyond, with China and India filling the two top spots, analysts have predicted.
Beckham virus spotted on the net Virus writers are trading on interest in David Beckham to distribute their malicious wares.
Video phones act as dating tools Technologies, from e-mail, to net chatrooms, instant messaging and mobiles, have proved to be a big pull with those looking for love.
Progress on new internet domains By early 2005 the net could have two new domain names.
Camera phones are 'must-haves' Four times more mobiles with cameras in them will be sold in Europe by the end of 2004 than last year, says a report from analysts Gartner.
Mobile multimedia slow to catch on There is no doubt that mobile phones sporting cameras and colour screens are hugely popular.
Anti-spam laws bite spammer hard The net's self-declared spam king is seeking bankruptcy protection.
Peer-to-peer nets 'here to stay' Peer-to-peer (P2P) networks are here to stay, and are on the verge of being exploited by commercial media firms, says a panel of industry experts.
Broadband fuels online expression Fast web access is encouraging more people to express themselves online, research suggests.
Savvy searchers fail to spot ads Internet search engine users are an odd mix of naive and sophisticated, suggests a report into search habits.
TV's future down the phone line Internet TV has been talked about since the start of the web as we know it now.
Cebit fever takes over Hanover Thousands of products and tens of thousands of visitors make Cebit the place to be for technology lovers.
New consoles promise big problems Making games for future consoles will require more graphic artists and more money, an industry conference has been told.
BT program to beat dialler scams BT is introducing two initiatives to help beat rogue dialler scams, which can cost dial-up net users thousands.
Spam e-mails tempt net shoppers Computer users across the world continue to ignore security warnings about spam e-mails and are being lured into buying goods, a report suggests.
Be careful how you code A new European directive could put software writers at risk of legal action, warns former programmer and technology analyst Bill Thompson.
US cyber security chief resigns The man making sure US computer networks are safe and secure has resigned after only a year in his post.
Losing yourself in online gaming Online role playing games are time-consuming, but enthralling flights from reality. But are some people taking their fantasy lives too seriously?
%%%business
Ad sales boost Time Warner profit Quarterly profits at US media giant TimeWarner jumped 76% to $1.13bn (£600m) for the three months to December, from $639m year-earlier.
Dollar gains on Greenspan speech The dollar has hit its highest level against the euro in almost three months after the Federal Reserve head said the US trade deficit is set to stabilise.
Yukos unit buyer faces loan claim The owners of embattled Russian oil giant Yukos are to ask the buyer of its former production unit to pay back a $900m (£479m) loan.
High fuel prices hit BA's profits British Airways has blamed high fuel prices for a 40% drop in profits.
Pernod takeover talk lifts Domecq Shares in UK drinks and food firm Allied Domecq have risen on speculation that it could be the target of a takeover by France's Pernod Ricard.
Japan narrowly escapes recession Japan's economy teetered on the brink of a technical recession in the three months to September, figures show.
Jobs growth still slow in the US The US created fewer jobs than expected in January, but a fall in jobseekers pushed the unemployment rate to its lowest level in three years.
India calls for fair trade rules India, which attends the G7 meeting of seven leading industrialised nations on Friday, is unlikely to be cowed by its newcomer status.
Ethiopia's crop production up 24% Ethiopia produced 14.27 million tonnes of crops in 2004, 24% higher than in 2003 and 21% more than the average of the past five years, a report says.
Court rejects $280bn tobacco case A US government claim accusing the country's biggest tobacco companies of covering up the effects of smoking has been thrown out by an appeal court.
Ask Jeeves tips online ad revival Ask Jeeves has become the third leading online search firm this week to thank a revival in internet advertising for improving fortunes.
Indonesians face fuel price rise Indonesia's government has confirmed it is considering raising fuel prices by as much as 30%.
Peugeot deal boosts Mitsubishi Struggling Japanese car maker Mitsubishi Motors has struck a deal to supply French car maker Peugeot with 30,000 sports utility vehicles (SUV).
Telegraph newspapers axe 90 jobs The Daily and Sunday Telegraph newspapers are axing 90 journalist jobs - 17% of their editorial staff.
Air passengers win new EU rights Air passengers who are unable to board their flights because of overbooking, cancellations or flight delays can now demand greater compensation.
China keeps tight rein on credit China's efforts to stop the economy from overheating by clamping down on credit will continue into 2005, state media report.
Parmalat boasts doubled profits Parmalat, the Italian food group at the centre of one of Europe's most painful corporate scandals, has reported a doubling in profit.
India's rupee hits five-year high India's rupee has hit a five-year high after Standard & Poor's (S&P) raised the country's foreign currency rating.
India widens access to telecoms India has raised the limit for foreign direct investment in telecoms companies from 49% to 74%.
Call centre users 'lose patience' Customers trying to get through to call centres are getting impatient and quicker to hang up, a survey suggests.
Rank 'set to sell off film unit' Leisure group Rank could unveil plans to demerge its film services unit and sell its media business, reports claim.
Sluggish economy hits German jobs The number of people out of work in Europe's largest economy has risen for the tenth straight month as growth remains stubbornly slow.
Mixed signals from French economy The French economy picked up speed at the end of 2004, official figures show - but still looks set to have fallen short of the government's hopes.
US trade gap hits record in 2004 The gap between US exports and imports hit an all-time high of $671.7bn (£484bn) in 2004, latest figures show.
Yukos loses US bankruptcy battle A judge has dismissed an attempt by Russian oil giant Yukos to gain bankruptcy protection in the US.
Safety alert as GM recalls cars The world's biggest carmaker General Motors (GM) is recalling nearly 200,000 vehicles in the US on safety grounds, according to federal regulators.
Steel firm 'to cut' 45,000 jobs Mittal Steel, one of the world's largest steel producers, could cut up to 45,000 jobs over the next five years, its chief executive has said.
Strong demand triggers oil rally Crude oil prices surged back above the $47 a barrel mark on Thursday after an energy market watchdog raised its forecasts for global demand.
UK firm faces Venezuelan land row Venezuelan authorities have said they will seize land owned by a British company as part of President Chavez's agrarian reform programme.
Soaring oil 'hits world economy' The soaring cost of oil has hit global economic growth, although world's major economies should weather the storm of price rises, according to the OECD.
Irish markets reach all-time high Irish shares have risen to a record high, with investors persuaded to buy into the market by low inflation and strong growth forecasts.
Japanese banking battle at an end Japan's Sumitomo Mitsui Financial has withdrawn its takeover offer for rival bank UFJ Holdings, enabling the latter to merge with Mitsubishi Tokyo.
Rich grab half Colombia poor fund Half of the money put aside by the Colombian government to help the country's poor is benefiting people who do not need it, a study has found.
Rover deal 'may cost 2,000 jobs' Some 2,000 jobs at MG Rover's Midlands plant may be cut if investment in the firm by a Chinese car maker goes ahead, the Financial Times has reported.
Ad firm WPP's profits surge 15% UK advertising giant WPP has posted larger-than-expected annual profits and predicted that it will outperform the market in 2005.
US gives foreign firms extra time Foreign firms have been given an extra year to meet tough new corporate governance regulations imposed by the US stock market watchdog.
Japanese mogul arrested for fraud One of Japan's best-known businessmen was arrested on Thursday on charges of falsifying shareholder information and selling shares based on the false data.
Deutsche Telekom sees mobile gain German telecoms firm Deutsche Telekom saw strong fourth quarter profits on the back of upbeat US mobile earnings and better-than-expected asset sales.
Chinese wine tempts Italy's Illva Italy's Illva Saronno has agreed to buy 33% of Changyu, the largest wine maker in China.
Umbro profits lifted by Euro 2004 UK sportswear firm Umbro has posted a 222% rise in annual profit after sales of replica England football kits were boosted by the Euro 2004 tournament.
Fed chief warning on US deficit Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan has warned that allowing huge US budget deficits to continue could have "severe" consequences.
UK Coal plunges into deeper loss Shares in UK Coal have fallen after the mining group reported losses had deepened to £51.6m in 2004 from £1.2m.
Saudi ministry to employ women Women will be employed in Saudi Arabia's foreign ministry for the first time this year, Foreign Minister Prince Saud Al-Faisal has been reported as saying.
Japan economy slides to recession The Japanese economy has officially gone back into recession for the fourth time in a decade.
US crude prices surge above $53 US crude prices have soared to fresh four-month highs above $53 in the US as refinery problems propelled petrol prices to an all-time high.
Industrial output falls in Japan Japanese industrial output fell in October while unemployment rose, casting further doubt on the strength of the country's economic recovery.
Ryanair in $4bn Boeing plane deal Budget airline Ryanair has placed an order for 70 Boeing 737-800 planes, in a deal valued at $4bn (£2.1bn) which should lead to 2,500 new Ryanair jobs.
Parmalat to return to stockmarket Parmalat, the Italian dairy company which went bust after an accounting scandal, hopes to be back on the Italian stock exchange in July.
BMW cash to fuel Mini production Less than four years after the new Mini was launched, German car maker BMW has announced £100m of new investment.
Bad weather hits Nestle sales A combination of bad weather, rising raw material costs and the sluggish European economy has hit sales at Swiss food and drink giant Nestle.
Fiat mulls Ferrari market listing Ferrari could be listed on the stock market as part of an overhaul of Fiat's carmaking operations, the Financial Times has reported.
Italy to get economic action plan Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi will unveil plans aimed at kickstarting the country's sputtering economy on Thursday night in Rome.
Weak dollar hits Reuters Revenues at media group Reuters slipped 11% during 2004, mainly due to the weakness of the dollar, the group said.
Hyundai to build new India plant South Korea's Hyundai Motor has announced that it plans to build a second plant in India to meet the country's growing demand for cars.
SA unveils 'more for all' budget The South African government has put tax cuts and increased social spending at the centre of its latest budget.
BMW drives record sales in Asia BMW has forecast sales growth of at least 10% in Asia this year after registering record sales there in 2004.
Economy 'stronger than forecast' The UK economy probably grew at a faster rate in the third quarter than the 0.4% reported, according to Bank of England deputy governor Rachel Lomax.
Electrolux to export Europe jobs Electrolux saw its shares rise 14% on Tuesday after it said it would be shifting more of its manufacturing to low-cost countries.
Worldcom ex-boss launches defence Lawyers defending former WorldCom chief Bernie Ebbers against a battery of fraud charges have called a company whistleblower as their first witness.
Insurance bosses plead guilty Another three US insurance executives have pleaded guilty to fraud charges stemming from an ongoing investigation into industry malpractice.
Further rise in UK jobless total The UK's jobless total rose for the second month in a row in December, official figures show.
Wembley firm won't make a profit Shares in Multiplex Group, which is building the new Wembley stadium, fell as much as 19% after it said it would not make any money on the project.
Cars pull down US retail figures US retail sales fell 0.3% in January, the biggest monthly decline since last August, driven down by a heavy fall in car sales.
Lufthansa may sue over Bush visit German airline Lufthansa may sue federal agencies for damages after the arrival of US president George W Bush disrupted flights.
EU aiming to fuel development aid European Union finance ministers meet on Thursday to discuss proposals, including a tax on jet fuel, to boost development aid for poorer nations.
German business confidence slides German business confidence fell in February knocking hopes of a speedy recovery in Europe's largest economy.
FAO warns on impact of subsidies Billions of farmers' livelihoods are at risk from falling commodity prices and protectionism, the UN's Food & Agriculture Organisation has warned.
India seeks to boost construction India has cleared a proposal allowing up to 100% foreign direct investment in its construction sector.
Boeing unveils new 777 aircraft US aircraft firm Boeing has unveiled its new long-distance 777 plane, as it tries to regain its position as the industry's leading manufacturer.
Circuit City gets takeover offer Circuit City Stores, the second-largest electronics retailer in the US, has received a $3.25bn (£1.7bn) takeover offer.
Japan turns to beer alternatives Japanese brewers are increasingly making money from beer-flavoured drinks rather than beer itself
S Korean consumers spending again South Korea looks set to sustain its revival thanks to renewed private consumption, its central bank says.
German growth goes into reverse Germany's economy shrank 0.2% in the last three months of 2004, upsetting hopes of a sustained recovery.
Turkey-Iran mobile deal 'at risk' Turkey's investment in Iran's mobile industry looks set to be scrapped after its biggest mobile firm saw its investment there slashed by MPs.
EU ministers to mull jet fuel tax European Union finance ministers are meeting on Thursday in Brussels, where they are to discuss a controversial jet fuel tax.
Palestinian economy in decline Despite a short-lived increase in Palestinian jobs in 2003, the economy is performing well below its potential, said a World Bank report.
China had role in Yukos split-up China lent Russia $6bn (£3.2bn) to help the Russian government renationalise the key Yuganskneftegas unit of oil group Yukos, it has been revealed.
Deadline nears for Fiat-GM deal Fiat and General Motors (GM) have until midnight on 1 February to settle a disagreement over a potential takeover.
ID theft surge hits US consumers Almost a quarter of a million US consumers complained of being targeted for identity theft in 2004, official figures suggest.
Argentina, Venezuela in oil deal Argentina and Venezuela have extended a food-for-oil deal, which helped the former to overcome a severe energy crisis last year.
BMW to recall faulty diesel cars BMW is to recall all cars equipped with a faulty diesel fuel-injection pump supplied by parts maker Robert Bosch.
Takeover rumour lifts Exel shares Shares in storage and delivery firm Exel closed up 9% at a two-and-a-half year high on Tuesday on speculation it is to receive an imminent takeover bid.
Yukos accused of lying to court Russian oil firm Yukos lied to a US court in an attempt to stop the Russian government selling off its key production unit, the court has heard.
Mexican in US send $16bn home Mexican labourers living in the US sent a record $16.6bn (£8.82bn) home last year.
Home loan approvals rising again The number of mortgages approved in the UK has risen for the first time since May last year, according to lending figures from the Bank of England.
Manufacturing recovery 'slowing' UK manufacturing grew at its slowest pace in one-and-a-half years in January, according to a survey.
Worldcom boss 'left books alone' Former Worldcom boss Bernie Ebbers, who is accused of overseeing an $11bn (£5.8bn) fraud, never made accounting decisions, a witness has told jurors.
Metlife buys up Citigroup insurer US banking giant Citigroup has sold its Travelers Life & Annuity insurance arm to Metlife for $11.5bn (£6.1bn).
Europe blames US over weak dollar European leaders have openly blamed the US for the sharp rise in the value of the euro.
French wine gets 70m euro top-up The French government is to hand its struggling wine industry 70m euros ($91m) in aid to help it battle falling sales and damaging overproduction.
Russia gets investment blessing Soaring oil sales and a budget surplus mean Russian debt is no longer a risky investment, one of the world's leading credit rating agencies says.
Iranian MPs threaten mobile deal Turkey's biggest private mobile firm could bail out of a $3bn ($1.6bn) deal to build a network in Iran after MPs there slashed its stake in the project.
Argentina closes $102.6bn debt swap Argentina is set to close its $102.6bn (£53.51bn) debt restructuring offer for bondholders later on Friday, with the government hopeful that most creditors will accept the deal.
US economy shows solid GDP growth The US economy has grown more than expected, expanding at an annual rate of 3.8% in the last quarter of 2004.
Profits slide at India's Dr Reddy Profits at Indian drugmaker Dr Reddy's fell 93% as research costs rose and sales flagged.
Burren awarded Egyptian contracts British energy firm Burren Energy has been awarded two potentially lucrative oil exploration contracts in Egypt.
'Strong dollar' call halts slide The US dollar's slide against the euro and yen has halted after US Treasury Secretary John Snow said a strong dollar was "in America's interest".
IMF 'cuts' German growth estimate The International Monetary Fund is to cut its 2005 growth forecast for the German economy from 1.8% to 0.8%, the Financial Times Deutschland reported.
GM, Ford cut output as sales fall US car firms General Motors (GM) and Ford have been forced to cut production in the face of falling car sales.
Ebbers denies WorldCom fraud Former WorldCom chief Bernie Ebbers has denied claims that he knew accountants were doctoring the books at the firm.
Australia rates at four year high Australia is raising its benchmark interest rate to its highest level in four years despite signs of a slowdown in the country's economy.
US company admits Benin bribery A US defence and telecommunications company has agreed to pay $28.5m after admitting bribery in the West African state of Benin.
US insurer Marsh cuts 2,500 jobs Up to 2,500 jobs are to go at US insurance broker Marsh & McLennan in a shake up following bigger-than-expected losses.
US seeks new $280bn smoker ruling The US Justice Department is to try to overturn a court ruling that threw out its claim for $280bn (£149bn) in damages from tobacco firms.
Budget Aston takes on Porsche British car maker Aston Martin has gone head-to-head with Porsche's 911 sports cars with the launch of its cheapest model yet.
Golden rule 'intact' says ex-aide Chancellor Gordon Brown will meet his golden economic rule "with a margin to spare", according to his former chief economic adviser.
Liberian economy starts to grow The Liberian economy started to grow in 2004, but "sustained and deep reform efforts" are needed to ensure long term growth, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has said.
Slowdown hits US factory growth US industrial production increased for the 21st month in a row in February, but at a slower pace than in January, official figures show.
Lufthansa flies back to profit German airline Lufthansa has returned to profit in 2004 after posting huge losses in 2003.
Japanese growth grinds to a halt Growth in Japan evaporated in the three months to September, sparking renewed concern about an economy not long out of a decade-long trough.
Unilever shake up as profit slips Anglo-Dutch consumer goods giant Unilever is to merge its two management boards after reporting "unsatisfactory" earnings for 2004.
France Telecom gets Orange boost Strong growth in subscriptions to mobile phone network Orange has helped boost profits at owner France Telecom.
Brussels raps mobile call charges The European Commission has written to the mobile phone operators Vodafone and T-Mobile to challenge "the high rates" they charge for international roaming.
WorldCom director admits lying The former chief financial officer at US telecoms firm WorldCom has admitted before a New York court that he used to lie to fellow board members.
Glaxo aims high after profit fall GlaxoSmithKline saw its profits fall 9% last year to £6.2bn ($11.5bn), but Europe's biggest drugmaker says a recovery during 2005 is on the way.
Japan bank shares up on link talk Shares of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial (SMFG), and Daiwa Securities jumped amid speculation that two of Japan's biggest financial companies will merge.
Car giant hit by Mercedes slump A slump in profitability at luxury car maker Mercedes has prompted a big drop in profits at parent DaimlerChrysler.
Ericsson sees earnings improve Telecoms equipment supplier Ericsson has posted a rise in fourth quarter profits thanks to clients like Deutsche Telekom upgrade their networks.
Bank opts to leave rates on hold The Bank of England has left interest rates on hold at 4.75% for a sixth month in a row.
Nigeria to boost cocoa production The government of Nigeria is hoping to triple cocoa production over the next three years with the launch of an ambitious development programme.
US interest rates increased to 2% US interest rates are to rise for the fourth time in five months, in a widely anticipated move.
US bank in $515m SEC settlement Five Bank of America subsidiaries have agreed to pay a total of $515m (£277m) to settle an investigation into fraudulent trading share practices.
Train strike grips Buenos Aires A strike on the Buenos Aires underground has caused traffic chaos and large queues at bus stops in the Argentine capital.
Bargain calls widen Softbank loss Japanese communications firm Softbank has widened losses after heavy spending on a new cut-rate phone service.
WMC profits up amid bid criticism Australian mining firm WMC Resources has seen a fivefold rise in profits while continuing to be the target of a hostile takeover bid.
Barclays profits hit record level Barclays, the UK's third-biggest bank, has seen annual pre-tax profits climb to record levels boosted by a sharp rise in business at its investment arm.
Yukos owner sues Russia for $28bn The majority owner of embattled Russian oil firm Yukos has sued the Russian government for $28.3bn (£15.2bn).
Qantas sees profits fly to record Australian airline Qantas has posted a record fiscal first-half profit thanks to cost-cutting measures.
Iraq to invite phone licence bids Iraq is to invite bids for two telephone licences, saying it wants to significantly boost nationwide coverage over the next decade.
Aviation firms eye booming India India's defence minister has opened the country's Aero India 2005 air show with an invitation for global aerospace firms to outsource jobs to the nation.
Russian oil merger excludes Yukos The merger of Russian gas giant Gazprom and oil firm Rosneft is to go ahead, but will not include Yugansk, which was controversially bought last year.
Brazil buy boosts Belgium's Inbev Belgian brewing giant Inbev has seen its profits soar thanks to its acquisition of Brazil's biggest beer firm Ambev last year.
Salary scandal in Cameroon Cameroon says widespread corruption in its finance ministry has cost it 1bn CFA francs ($2m; £1m) a month.
US adds more jobs than expected The US economy added 337,000 jobs in October - a seven-month high and far more than Wall Street expectations.
Feta cheese battle reaches court A row over whether only Greece should be allowed to label its cheese feta has reached the European Court of Justice.
Ukraine revisits state sell-offs Ukraine is preparing what could be a wholesale review of the privatisation of thousands of businesses by the previous administration.
Bank set to leave rates on hold UK interest rates are set to remain on hold at 4.75% following the latest meeting of the Bank of England.
Winter freeze keeps oil above $50 Oil prices carried on rising on Wednesday after cold weather on both sides of the North Atlantic pushed US crude prices to four-month highs.
German jobless rate at new record More than 5.2 million Germans were out of work in February, new figures show.
Ore costs hit global steel firms Shares in steel firms have dropped worldwide amid concerns that higher iron ore costs will hit profit growth.
BMW reveals new models pipeline BMW is preparing to enter the market for car-style people carriers, the firm's chief has told BBC News.
Asian banks halt dollar's slide The dollar regained some lost ground against most major currencies on Wednesday after South Korea and Japan denied they were planning a sell-off.
Weak dollar trims Cadbury profits The world's biggest confectionery firm, Cadbury Schweppes, has reported a modest rise in profits after the weak dollar took a bite out of its results.
Oil prices fall back from highs Oil prices retreated from four-month highs in early trading on Tuesday after producers' cartel Opec said it was now unlikely to cut production.
Winn-Dixie files for bankruptcy US supermarket group Winn-Dixie has filed for bankruptcy protection after succumbing to stiff competition in a market dominated by Wal-Mart.
Why few targets are better than many The economic targets set out at the Lisbon summit of European Union leaders in 2000 were meant to help Europe leapfrog its way past the United States to become the world's leading economy by 2010.
Malaysia lifts Islamic bank limit Malaysia's central bank is to relax restrictions on foreign ownership to encourage Islamic banking.
Alfa Romeos 'to get GM engines' Fiat is to stop making six-cylinder petrol engines for its sporty Alfa Romeo subsidiary, unions at the Italian carmaker have said.
Saab to build Cadillacs in Sweden General Motors, the world's largest car maker, has confirmed that it will build a new medium-sized Cadillac BLS at its loss-making Saab factory in Sweden.
Shares hit by MS drug suspension Shares in Elan and Biogen Idec plunged on Monday as the firms suspended sales of new multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri after a patient's death in the US.
Bank voted 8-1 for no rate change The decision to keep interest rates on hold at 4.75% earlier this month was passed 8-1 by the Bank of England's rate-setting body, minutes have shown.
Crude oil prices back above $50 Cold weather across parts of the United States and much of Europe has pushed US crude oil prices above $50 a barrel for the first time in almost three months.
House prices show slight increase Prices of homes in the UK rose a seasonally adjusted 0.5% in February, says the Nationwide building society.
Golden rule boost for Chancellor Chancellor Gordon Brown has been given a £2.1bn boost in his attempts to meet his golden economic rule, which allows him to borrow only for investment.
Macy's owner buys rival for $11bn US retail giant Federated Department Stores is to buy rival May Department Stores for $11bn (£5.7bn).
Industrial revival hope for Japan Japanese industry is growing faster than expected, boosting hopes that the country's retreat back into recession is over.
Khodorkovsky ally denies charges A close associate of former Yukos boss Mikhail Khodorkovsky has told a court that fraud charges levelled against him are "false".
Qatar and Shell in $6bn gas deal Shell has signed a $6bn (£3.12bn) deal with the Middle Eastern sheikhdom of Qatar to supply liquid natural gas (LNG) to North America and Europe.
India unveils anti-poverty budget India is to boost spending on primary schools and health in a budget flagged as a boost for the ordinary citizen.
GM pays $2bn to evade Fiat buyout General Motors of the US is to pay Fiat 1.55bn euros ($2bn; £1.1bn) to get out of a deal which could have forced it to buy the Italian car maker outright.
Ex-Boeing director gets jail term An ex-chief financial officer at Boeing has received a four-month jail sentence and a fine of $250,000 (£131,961) for illegally hiring a top Air Force aide.
Verizon 'seals takeover of MCI' Verizon has won a takeover battle for US phone firm MCI with a bid worth $6.8bn (£3.6bn), reports say.
US data sparks inflation worries Wholesale prices in the US rose at the fastest rate in more than six years in January, according to government data.
Yukos sues four firms for $20bn Russian oil firm Yukos has sued four companies for their role in last year's forced state auction of its key oil production unit Yuganskneftegas.
Consumer spending lifts US growth US economic growth accelerated in the third quarter, helped by strong consumer spending, official figures have shown.
Crossrail link 'to get go-ahead' The £10bn Crossrail transport plan, backed by business groups, is to get the go-ahead this month, according to The Mail on Sunday.
Hariri killing hits Beirut shares Shares in Solidere, the Lebanese company founded by assassinated former prime minister Rafik Hariri, fell 15% in renewed trading in Beirut.
Small firms 'hit by rising costs' Rising fuel and materials costs are hitting confidence among the UK's small manufacturers despite a rise in output, business lobby group the CBI says.
Buyers snap up Jet Airways' shares Investors have snapped up shares in Jet Airways, India's biggest airline, following the launch of its much anticipated initial public offer (IPO).
House prices suffer festive fall UK house prices fell 0.7% in December, according to figures from the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.
Deutsche Boerse boosts dividend Deutsche Boerse, the German stock exchange that is trying to buy its London rival, has said it will boost its 2004 dividend payment by 27%.
Newest EU members underpin growth The European Union's newest members will bolster Europe's economic growth in 2005, according to a new report.
Brewers' profits lose their fizz Heineken and Carlsberg, two of the world's largest brewers, have reported falling profits after beer sales in western Europe fell flat.
Yangtze Electric's profits double Yangtze Electric Power, the operator of China's Three Gorges Dam, has said its profits more than doubled in 2004.
French consumer spending rising French consumers increased their spending by 1.5% in January, a figure which bodes well for the country's economic growth, figures revealed.
GSK aims to stop Aids profiteers One of the world's largest manufacturers of HIV/Aids drugs has launched an initiative to combat the smuggling of cheaper pills - supplied to poorer African countries - back into Europe for resale at far higher price.
Optimism remains over UK housing The UK property market remains robust despite the recent slowdown, according to mortgage lender Bradford & Bingley and housebuilder George Wimpey.
Russia WTO talks 'make progress' Talks on Russia's proposed membership of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) have been "making good progress" say those behind the negotiations.
Irish duo could block Man Utd bid Irishmen JP McManus and John Magnier, who own a 29% stake in Manchester United, will reportedly reject any formal £800m offer for the club.
Dollar drops on reserves concerns The US dollar has dropped against major currencies on concerns that central banks may cut the amount of dollars they hold in their foreign reserves.
India and Russia in energy talks India and Russia are to work together in a series of energy deals, part of a pact which could see India invest up to $20bn in oil and gas projects.
Weak data buffets French economy A batch of downbeat government data has cast doubt over the French economy's future prospects.
Business fears over sluggish EU economy As European leaders gather in Rome on Friday to sign the new EU constitution, many companies will be focusing on matters much closer to home - namely how to stay in business.
M&S cuts prices by average of 24% Marks & Spencer has cut prices in London and the regions by an average of 24%, according to research from a City investment bank.
US bank 'loses' customer details The Bank of America has revealed it has lost computer tapes containing account details of more than one million customers who are US federal employees.
Huge rush for Jet Airways shares Indian airline Jet Airways' initial public offering was oversubscribed 16.2 times, bankers said on Friday.
Bank payout to Pinochet victims A US bank has said it will donate more than $8m to victims of former Chilean military ruler Augusto Pinochet's regime under a Madrid court settlement.
Qwest may spark MCI bidding war US phone company Qwest has said it will table a new offer for MCI after losing out to larger rival Verizon, setting the scene for a possible bidding war.
Fiat chief takes steering wheel The chief executive of the Fiat conglomerate has taken day-to-day control of its struggling car business in an effort to turn it around.
Consumers drive French economy France's economic growth accelerated in the last three months of 2004, driven by consumer spending, a report shows.
US regulator to rule on pain drug US food and drug regulators will decide on Friday whether to recommend the sale of painkillers that have been linked to a high risk of heart attack and stroke.
Yukos bankruptcy 'not US matter' Russian authorities do not have to abide by any US court decisions taken with regard to troubled oil giant Yukos, a Houston court has been told.
Borussia Dortmund near bust German football club and former European champion Borussia Dortmund has warned it will go bankrupt if rescue talks with creditors fail.
'Post-Christmas lull' in lending UK mortgage lending showed a "post-Christmas lull" in January, indicating a slowing housing market, lenders have said.
UK 'risks breaking golden rule' The UK government will have to raise taxes or rein in spending if it wants to avoid breaking its "golden rule", a report suggests.
Worldcom director ends evidence The former chief financial officer at US telecoms firm WorldCom has finished giving evidence at the trial of his ex-boss Bernie Ebbers.
Ukraine steel sell-off 'illegal' The controversial sell-off of a Ukrainian steel mill to a relative of the former president was illegal, a court has ruled.
Cairn shares up on new oil find Shares in Cairn Energy have jumped 6% after the firm said an Indian oilfield was larger than previously thought.
Georgia plans hidden asset pardon Georgia is offering a one-off 'tax amnesty' to people who hid their earnings under the regime of former president Eduard Shevardnadze.
Cuba winds back economic clock Fidel Castro's decision to ban all cash transactions in US dollars in Cuba has once more turned the spotlight on Cuba's ailing economy.
Novartis hits acquisition trail Swiss drugmaker Novartis has announced 5.65bn euros ($7.4bn; £3.9bn) of purchases to make its Sandoz unit the world's biggest generic drug producer.
MCI shareholder sues to stop bid A shareholder in US phone firm MCI has taken legal action to halt a $6.75bn (£3.6bn) buyout by telecoms giant Verizon, hoping to get a better deal.
'Standoff' on Deutsche's LSE bid Deutsche Boerse investors unhappy with its London Stock Exchange bid will have no chance to throw out the exchange's management until May, Reuters says.
Bush to outline 'toughest' budget President Bush is to send his toughest budget proposals to date to the US Congress, seeking large cuts in domestic spending to lower the deficit.
Orange colour clash set for court A row over the colour orange could hit the courts after mobile phone giant Orange launched action against a new mobile venture from Easyjet's founder.
Standard Life cuts policy bonuses Standard Life, Europe's largest mutual life insurer, has cut bonuses for with-profit policyholders.
EMI shares hit by profit warning Shares in music giant EMI have sunk by more than 16% after the firm issued a profit warning following disappointing sales and delays to two album releases.
China's Shanda buys stake in Sina Chinese online game operator Shanda Interactive Entertainment has bought a 20% stake in Sina, the country's biggest internet portal firm.
Mixed reaction to Man Utd offer Shares in Manchester United were up over 5% by noon on Monday following a new offer from Malcolm Glazer.
Gold falls on IMF sale concerns The price of gold has fallen after the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said it will look at ways of using its gold reserves to provide debt relief.
Electronics firms eye plasma deal Consumer electronics giants Hitachi and Matshushita Electric are joining forces to share and develop technology for flat screen televisions.
MG Rover China tie-up 'delayed' MG Rover's proposed tie-up with China's top carmaker has been delayed due to concerns by Chinese regulators, according to the Financial Times.
US bank boss hails 'genius' Smith US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan has given a speech at a Scottish church in honour of the pioneering economist, Adam Smith.
Economy 'strong' in election year UK businesses are set to prosper during the next few months - but this could trigger more interest rate rises, according to a report.
SEC to rethink post-Enron rules The US stock market watchdog's chairman has said he is willing to soften tough new US corporate governance rules to ease the burden on foreign firms.
Nissan names successor to Ghosn Nissan has named a lifetime employee to run its operations after Carlos Ghosn, its highly successful boss, takes charge at Renault.
Ukraine trims privatisation check Ukraine is to review "dozens" of state asset sales as the country's new administration tackles corruption.
Absa and Barclays talks continue South Africa biggest retail bank Absa has said it is still in talks with UK bank Barclays over the sale of majority stake in the group.
Rescue hope for Borussia Dortmund Shares in struggling German football club Borussia Dortmund slipped on Monday despite the club agreeing a rescue plan with creditors on Friday.
Standard Life concern at LSE bid Standard Life is the latest shareholder in Deutsche Boerse to express concern at the German stock market operator's plans to buy the London Stock Exchange.
BP surges ahead on high oil price Oil giant BP has announced a 26% rise in annual profits to $16.2bn (£8.7bn) on the back of record oil prices.
Oil companies get Russian setback International oil and mining companies have reacted cautiously to Russia's decision to bar foreign firms from natural resource tenders in 2005.
Gaming firm to sell UK dog tracks Six UK greyhound tracks have been put up for sale by gaming group Wembley as part of a move which will lead to the break-up of the group.
Man Utd to open books to Glazer Manchester United's board has agreed to give US tycoon Malcolm Glazer access to its books.
Sales 'fail to boost High Street' The January sales have failed to help the UK High Street recover from a poor Christmas season, a survey has found.
McDonald's to sponsor MTV show McDonald's, the world's largest restaurant chain, is to sponsor a programme on music channel MTV as part of its latest youth market promotion.
Call to save manufacturing jobs The Trades Union Congress (TUC) is calling on the government to stem job losses in manufacturing firms by reviewing the help it gives companies.
Tsunami 'to hit Sri Lanka banks' Sri Lanka's banks face hard times following December's tsunami disaster, officials have warned.
Shares rise on new Man Utd offer Shares in Manchester United closed up 4.75% on Monday following a new offer from US tycoon Malcolm Glazer.
Yukos drops banks from court bid Russian oil company Yukos has dropped the threat of legal action against five banks it had accused of involvement in the sale of its key Yugansk unit.
Venezuela reviews foreign deals Venezuela is to review all foreign investment in its mining industries in an effort to strengthen its indigenous industrial output.
Lloyd's of London head chides FSA The head of Lloyd's of London, the insurance market, has criticised Britain's financial watchdog, the Financial Services Authority (FSA).
Bat spit drug firm goes to market A German firm whose main product is derived from the saliva of the vampire bat is looking to raise more than 70m euros ($91m; £49m) on the stock market.
Vodafone appoints new Japan boss Vodafone has drafted in its UK chief executive William Morrow to take charge of its troubled Japanese operation.
Pension hitch for long-living men Male life expectancy is much higher than originally estimated, leading pension researchers have said.
Card fraudsters 'targeting web' New safeguards on credit and debit card payments in shops has led fraudsters to focus on internet and phone payments, an anti-fraud agency has said.
Britannia members' £42m windfall More than 800,000 Britannia Building Society members are to receive a profit share worth on average £52 each.
Firms pump billions into pensions Employers have spent billions of pounds propping up their final salary pensions over the past year, research suggests.
UK homes hit £3.3 trillion total The value of the UK's housing stock reached the £3.3 trillion mark in 2004 - triple the value 10 years earlier, a report indicates.
Economy 'strong' in election year UK businesses are set to prosper during the next few months - but this could trigger more interest rate rises, according to a report.
G7 backs Africa debt relief plan G7 finance ministers have backed plans to write off up to 100% of the debts of some of the world's poorest countries.
Q&A: Malcolm Glazer and Man Utd The battle for control of Manchester United has taken another turn after the club confirmed it had received a fresh takeover approach from US business tycoon Malcolm Glazer.
Making your office work for you Our mission to brighten up your working lives continues - and this time, we're taking a long hard look at your offices.
Market unfazed by Aurora setback As the Aurora limped back to its dock on 20 January, a blizzard of photos and interviews seemed to add up to an unambiguous tale of woe.
The 'ticking budget' facing the US The budget proposals laid out by the administration of US President George W Bush are highly controversial. The Washington-based Economic Policy Institute, which tends to be critical of the President, looks at possible fault lines. US politicians and citizens of all political persuasions are in for a dose of shock therapy. Without major changes in current policies and political prejudices, the federal budget simply cannot hold together. News coverage of the Bush budget will be dominated by debates about spending cuts, but the fact is these will be large cuts in small programs. From the standpoint of the big fiscal trends, the cuts are gratuitous and the big budget train wreck is yet to come. Under direct threat will be the federal government's ability to make good on its debts to the Social Security Trust Fund. As soon as 2018, the fund will begin to require some cash returns on its bond holdings in order to finance all promised benefits.
Ebbers 'aware' of WorldCom fraud Former WorldCom boss Bernie Ebbers was directly involved in the $11bn financial fraud at the firm, his closest associate has told a US court.
Renault boss hails 'great year' Strong sales outside western Europe helped Renault boost its profits by more than 40% in 2004 although the firm warned of lower margins this year.
Survey confirms property slowdown Government figures have confirmed a widely reported slowdown of the UK's housing market in late 2004.
Bush budget seeks deep cutbacks President Bush has presented his 2006 budget, cutting domestic spending in a bid to lower a record deficit projected to peak at $427bn (£230bn) this year.
Profits stall at China's Lenovo Profits at Chinese computer firm Lenovo have stood still amid slowing demand at home and stiffening competition.
MCI shares climb on takeover bid Shares in US phone company MCI have risen on speculation that it is in takeover talks.
BT offers equal access to rivals BT has moved to pre-empt a possible break-up of its business by offering to cut wholesale broadband prices and open its network to rivals.
Jobs growth still slow in the US The US created fewer jobs than expected in January, but a fall in jobseekers pushed the unemployment rate to its lowest level in three years.
News Corp eyes video games market News Corp, the media company controlled by Australian billionaire Rupert Murdoch, is eyeing a move into the video games market.
Call to overhaul UK state pension The UK pension system has been branded inadequate and too complex by a leading retirement think-tank.
Singapore growth at 8.1% in 2004 Singapore's economy grew by 8.1% in 2004, its best performance since 2000, figures from the trade ministry show.
Turkey knocks six zeros off lira Turkey is to relaunch its currency on Saturday, knocking six zeros off the lira in the hope of boosting trade and powering its growing economy.
S Korea spending boost to economy South Korea will boost state spending next year in an effort to create jobs and kick start its sputtering economy.
Latin America sees strong growth Latin America's economy grew by 5.5% in 2004, its best performance since 1980, while exports registered their best performance in two decades.
Asia shares defy post-quake gloom Indonesian, Indian and Hong Kong stock markets reached record highs.
Booming markets shed few tears The market, former British government minister Michael Heseltine once said, has no morality.
Asian quake hits European shares Shares in Europe's leading reinsurers and travel firms have fallen as the scale of the damage wrought by tsunamis across south Asia has become apparent.
Split-caps pay £194m compensation Investors who lost money following the split-capital investment trust scandal are to receive £194m compensation, the UK's financial watchdog has announced.
French suitor holds LSE meeting European stock market Euronext has met with the London Stock Exchange (LSE) amid speculation that it may be ready to launch a cash bid.
Troubled Marsh under SEC scrutiny The US stock market regulator is investigating troubled insurance broker Marsh & McLennan's shareholder transactions, the firm has said.
Could Yukos be a blessing in disguise? Other things being equal, the notion of entrepreneurs languishing in jail while their companies are sold off for a song ought to be bad for business.
Nasdaq planning $100m share sale The owner of the technology-dominated Nasdaq stock index plans to sell shares to the public and list itself on the market it operates.
Giving financial gifts to children Your child or grandchild may want the latest toy this Christmas, but how about giving them a present that will help their financial future?
Air China in $1bn London listing China's national airline is to make its overseas stock market debut with a dual listing in London and Hong Kong, the London Stock Exchange (LSE) has said.
Oil prices reach three-month low Oil prices have fallen heavily for a second day, closing at three-month lows after news that US crude stocks have improved ahead of winter.
Arsenal 'may seek full share listing' Arsenal vice-chairman David Dein has said the club may consider seeking a full listing for its shares on the London Stock Exchange.
Markets signal Brazilian recovery The Brazilian stock market has risen to a record high as investors display growing confidence in the durability of the country's economic recovery.
Markets fall on weak dollar fears Rising oil prices and the sinking dollar hit shares on Monday after a finance ministers' meeting and stern words from Fed chief Alan Greenspan.
Google shares fall as staff sell Shares in Google have fallen 6.7% after employees and early investors in the web search took advantage of the first chance to sell their holdings.
Five million Germans out of work Germany's unemployment figure rose above the psychologically important level of five million last month.
India power shares jump on debut Shares in India's largest power producer, National Thermal Power Corp (NTPC) have risen 13% on their stock market debut.
Turkey turns on the economic charm Three years after a gruelling economic crisis, Turkey has dressed its economy to impress.
SBC plans post-takeover job cuts US phone company SBC Communications said it expects to cut around 12,800 jobs following its $16bn (£8.5bn) takeover of former parent AT&T.
German bidder in talks with LSE Deutsche Boerse bosses have held "constructive, professional and friendly" talks with the London Stock Exchange (LSE), its chief has said.
Amex shares up on spin-off news Shares in American Express surged more than 8% on Tuesday after it said it was to spin off its less profitable financial advisory subsidiary.
Axa Sun Life cuts bonus payments Life insurer Axa Sun Life has lowered annual bonus payouts for up to 50,000 with-profits investors.
Chinese dam firm 'defies Beijing' The China Three Gorges Project Corp is refusing to obey a government order to stop construction of one of its giant dams, the Chinese state press has said.
Stock market eyes Japan recovery Japanese shares have ended the year at their highest level since 13 July amidst hopes of an economic recovery during 2005.
Iraqi voters turn to economic issues Beyond the desperate security situation in Iraq lies an economy in tatters.
EU 'too slow' on economic reforms Most EU countries have failed to put in place policies aimed at making Europe the world's most competitive economy by the end of the decade, a report says.
China continues breakneck growth China's economy has expanded by a breakneck 9.5% during 2004, faster than predicted and well above 2003's 9.1%.
Japan's ageing workforce: built to last In his twenties he battled tuberculosis for eight years, then went on to run his own clothing business before marrying in his late thirties. And the 101-year-old Torao Toshitsune has eaten raw fish pretty much every day throughout his life.
GE sees 'excellent' world economy US behemoth General Electric has posted an 18% jump in quarterly sales, and in profits, and declared itself "in great shape".
UK economy facing 'major risks' The UK manufacturing sector will continue to face "serious challenges" over the next two years, the British Chamber of Commerce (BCC) has said.
Bank holds interest rate at 4.75% The Bank of England has left interest rates on hold again at 4.75%, in a widely-predicted move.
Tobacco giants hail court ruling US tobacco companies have welcomed an appeal court's decision to reject the government's $280bn (£155bn) claim for alleged deceit about smoking dangers.
Steady job growth continues in US The US created fewer jobs than expected in December, but analysts said that the dip in hiring was not enough to derail the world's biggest economy.
Glazer makes new Man Utd approach Malcolm Glazer has made a fresh approach to buy Manchester United, which could lead to a bid valuing the Premiership club at £800m.
Wall Street cheers Bush victory The US stock market has closed higher in response to George W Bush's victory in the presidential elections.
Business confidence dips in Japan Business confidence among Japanese manufacturers has weakened for the first time since March 2003, the quarterly Tankan survey has found.
Millions 'to lose textile jobs' Millions of the world's poorest textile trade workers will lose their jobs under new trade rules to be introduced in the new year, a charity has warned.
Dutch bank to lay off 2,850 staff ABN Amro, the Netherlands' largest bank, is to cut 2,850 jobs as a result of falling profits.
Fannie Mae 'should restate books' US mortgage company Fannie Mae should restate its earnings, a move that is likely to put a billion-dollar dent in its accounts, watchdogs have said.
US to rule on Yukos refuge call Yukos has said a US bankruptcy court will decide whether to block Russia's impending auction of its main production arm on Thursday.
J&J agrees $25bn Guidant deal Pharmaceutical giant Johnson & Johnson has agreed to buy medical technology firm Guidant for $25.4bn (£13bn).
Libya takes $1bn in unfrozen funds Libya has withdrawn $1bn in assets from the US, assets which had previously been frozen for almost 20 years, the Libyan central bank has said.
Cactus diet deal for Phytopharm A slimming aid made from a southern African cactus is set to be developed by UK firm Phytopharm and Unilever.
Brazil plays down Varig rescue The Brazilian government has played down claims that it could step in to save the country's biggest airline.
Bombardier chief to leave company Shares in train and plane-making giant Bombardier have fallen to a 10-year low following the departure of its chief executive and two members of the board.
Brazil approves bankruptcy reform A major reform of Brazil's bankruptcy laws has been approved by the country's Congress, in a move which it is hoped will cut the cost of borrowing.
Retail sales show festive fervour UK retail sales were better than expected in November as Christmas shoppers began their seasonal flock to the High Street, figures show.
Cairn shares slump on oil setback Shares in Cairn Energy, a UK oil firm, have closed down 18% after a disappointing drilling update and a warning over possible tax demands.
French boss to leave EADS The French co-head of European defence and aerospace group EADS Philippe Camus is to leave his post.
AstraZeneca hit by drug failure Shares in Anglo-Swedish drug have closed down 8% in UK trade after the failure of its Iressa drug in a major clinical trial.
Strong quarterly growth for Nike Nike has reported its best second-quarter earnings, helped by strong demand for its athletic shoes and Converse sneakers.
Stormy year for property insurers A string of storms, typhoons and earthquakes has made 2004 the most expensive year on record for property insurers, according to Swiss Re.
Parmalat sues 45 banks over crash Parmalat has sued 45 banks as it tries to reclaim money paid to banks before the scandal-hit Italian dairy company went bust last year.
Irish company hit by Iraqi report Shares in Irish oil company Petrel Resources have lost more than 50% of their value on a report that the firm has failed to win a contract in Iraq.
Yukos unit fetches $9bn at auction A little-known Russian company has bought the main production unit of oil giant Yukos at auction in Moscow.
S&N extends Indian beer venture The UK's biggest brewer, Scottish and Newcastle (S&N), is to buy 37.5% of India's United Breweries in a deal worth 4.66bn rupees ($106m:£54.6m).
Euronext 'poised to make LSE bid' Pan-European group Euronext is poised to launch a bid for the London Stock Exchange, UK media reports say.
Christmas shoppers flock to tills Shops all over the UK reported strong sales on the last Saturday before Christmas with some claiming record-breaking numbers of festive shoppers.
Mystery surrounds new Yukos owner The fate of Russia's Yuganskneftegas - the oil firm sold to a little-known buyer on Sunday - is the subject of frantic speculation in Moscow.
Euronext joins bid battle for LSE Pan-European stock market Euronext has approached the London Stock Exchange (LSE) about a possible takeover bid.
Iraq and Afghanistan in WTO talks The World Trade Organisation (WTO) is to hold membership talks with both Iraq and Afghanistan.
Diageo to buy US wine firm Diageo, the world's biggest spirits company, has agreed to buy Californian wine company Chalone for $260m (£134m) in an all-cash deal.
Tokyo says deflation 'controlled' The Japanese government has forecast that the country's economic growth will slow to 1.6% in the next fiscal year starting in April 2005.
No seasonal lift for house market A swathe of figures have provided further evidence of a slowdown in the UK property market.
Yukos seeks court action on sale Yukos will return to a US court on Wednesday to seek sanctions against Baikal Finance Group, the little-known firm which has bought its main asset.
Indy buys into India paper Irish publishing group Independent News & Media is buying up a 26% stake in Indian newspaper company Jagran in a deal worth 25m euros ($34.1m).
Senior Fannie Mae bosses resign The two most senior executives at US mortgage giant Fannie Mae have resigned after accounting irregularities were uncovered at the company.
Cannabis hopes for drug firm A prescription cannabis drug made by UK biotech firm GW Pharmaceuticals is set to be approved in Canada.
Bush to get 'tough' on deficit US president George W Bush has pledged to introduce a "tough" federal budget next February in a bid to halve the country's deficit in five years.
House prices drop as sales slow House prices fell further in November and property sale times lengthened as rate rises took their toll, the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors found.
Fresh hope after Argentine crisis Three years after Argentina was hit by a deadly economic crisis, there is fresh hope.
Disney settles disclosure charges Walt Disney has settled charges from US federal regulators that it failed to disclose how family members of directors were employed by the company.
Putin backs state grab for Yukos Russia's president has defended the purchase of Yukos' key production unit by state-owned oil firm Rosneft, saying it followed free market principles.
Troubled Marsh under SEC scrutiny The US stock market regulator is investigating troubled insurance broker Marsh & McLennan's shareholder transactions, the firm has said.
US firm pulls out of Iraq A US company has pulled out of a major contract to rebuild Iraq's transport system after attacks on reconstruction efforts, Pentagon officials have said.
Boeing secures giant Japan order Boeing is to supply Japan Airlines with up to 50 of its forthcoming 7E7 planes in a deal that could be worth as much as $6bn (£3.1bn) for the US giant.
Banker loses sexism claim A former executive at the London offices of Merrill Lynch has lost her £7.5m ($14.6m) sex discrimination case against the US investment bank.
Building giant in asbestos payout Australian building products group James Hardie has agreed to pay $1.1bn (£568m) to victims of asbestos-related diseases.
Police detain Chinese milk bosses Chinese police have detained three top executives at milk firm Yili, with reports suggesting that they are being investigated for embezzlement.
India's Deccan seals $1.8bn deal Air Deccan has ordered 30 Airbus A320 planes in a $1.8bn (£931m) deal as India's first low-cost airline expands in the fast-growing domestic market.
Venezuela and China sign oil deal Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez has offered China wide-ranging access to the country's oil reserves.
Jarvis sells Tube stake to Spain Shares in engineering group Jarvis have soared more than 16% on news that it is offloading its stake in London underground consortium Tube Lines.
Honda wins China copyright ruling Japan's Honda has won a copyright case in Beijing, further evidence that China is taking a tougher line on protecting intellectual property rights.
Air Jamaica back in state control The Jamaican government is regaining control of Air Jamaica in an bid to help the ailing company out of its financial difficulties.
Battered dollar hits another low The dollar has fallen to a new record low against the euro after data fuelled fresh concerns about the US economy.
Quake's economic costs emerging Asian governments and international agencies are reeling at the potential economic devastation left by the Asian tsunami and floods.
Disaster claims 'less than $10bn' Insurers have sought to calm fears that they face huge losses after an earthquake and giant waves killed at least 38,000 people in southern Asia.
India-Pakistan peace boosts trade Calmer relations between India and Pakistan are paying economic dividends, with new figures showing bilateral trade up threefold in the summer.
US to probe airline travel chaos The US government is to investigate two airlines- US Airways and Delta Air Lines' Comair subsidiary - after travel chaos over the Christmas weekend.
S Korean lender faces liquidation Creditors of South Korea's top credit card firm have said they will put the company into liquidation if its ex-parent firm fails to back a bail-out.
Dollar hits new low versus euro The US dollar has continued its record-breaking slide and has tumbled to a new low against the euro.
Mild winter drives US oil down 6% US oil prices have fallen by 6%, driven down by forecasts of a mild winter in the densely populated northeast.
Share boost for feud-hit Reliance The board of Indian conglomerate Reliance has agreed a share buy-back, to counter the effects of a power struggle in the controlling family.
Giant waves damage S Asia economy Governments, aid agencies, insurers and travel firms are among those counting the cost of the massive earthquake and waves that hammered southern Asia.
Asia shares defy post-quake gloom Thailand has become the first of the 10 southern Asian nations battered by giant waves at the weekend to cut its economic forecast.
Israeli economy picking up pace Israel's economy is forecast to grow by 4.2% in 2004 as it continues to emerge from a three-year recession.
S Korea spending boost to economy South Korea will boost state spending next year in an effort to create jobs and kick start its sputtering economy.
Soros group warns of Kazakh close The Open Society Institute (OSI), financed by billionaire George Soros, has accused Kazakhstan officials of trying to close down its local office.
Deutsche attacks Yukos case German investment bank Deutsche Bank has challenged the right of Yukos to claim bankruptcy protection in the US.
GM in crunch talks on Fiat future Fiat will meet car giant General Motors (GM) on Tuesday in an attempt to reach agreement over the future of the Italian firm's loss-making auto group.
Record year for Chilean copper Chile's copper industry has registered record earnings of $14.2bn in 2004, the governmental Chilean Copper Commission (Cochilco) has reported.
US consumer confidence up Consumers' confidence in the state of the US economy is at its highest for five months and they are optimistic about 2005, an influential survey says.
Cash gives way to flexible friend Spending on credit and debit cards has overtaken cash spending in the UK for the first time.
Go-ahead for Balkan oil pipeline Albania, Bulgaria and Macedonia has given the go ahead for the construction of a $1.2bn oil pipeline that will pass through the Balkan peninsula.
Durex maker SSL awaits firm bid UK condom maker SSL International has refused to comment on reports it may be subject to a takeover early in 2005.
Nasdaq planning $100m-share sale The owner of the technology-dominated Nasdaq stock index plans to sell shares to the public and list itself on the market it operates.
WMC says Xstrata bid is too low Australian mining firm WMC Resources has said it is worth up to 30% more than a hostile 7.4bn Australian dollar ($5.8bn; £3bn) bid by rival Xstrata.
Takeover offer for Sunderland FC Bob Murray, chairman of Sunderland FC, has launched a £1.5m ($2.8m) bid for the club after buying broadcaster BSkyB's stake in the business.
Warning over US pensions deficit Taxpayers may have to bail out the US agency that protects workers' pension funds, leading economists have warned.
Beer giant swallows Russian firm Brewing giant Inbev has agreed to buy Alfa-Eco's stake in Sun Interbrew, Russia's second-largest brewer, for up to 259.7m euros ($353.3m; £183.75m).
US manufacturing expands US industrial production increased in December, according to the latest survey from the Institute for Supply Management (ISM).
Singapore growth at 8.1% in 2004 Singapore's economy grew by 8.1% in 2004, its best performance since 2000, figures from the trade ministry show.
Madagascar completes currency switch Madagascar has completed the replacement of its Malagasy franc with a new currency, the ariary.
Quiksilver moves for Rossignol Shares of Skis Rossignol, the world's largest ski-maker, have jumped as much as 15% on speculation that it will be bought by US surfwear firm Quiksilver.
Dollar hovers around record lows The US dollar hovered close to record lows against the euro on Friday as concern grows about the size of the US budget deficit.
S Korean credit card firm rescued South Korea's largest credit card firm has averted liquidation following a one trillion won ($960m; £499m) bail-out.
Dollar slides ahead of New Year The US dollar has hit a new record low against the euro and analysts predict that more declines are likely in 2005.
VW considers opening Indian plant Volkswagen is considering building a car factory in India, but said it had yet to make a final decision.
Ukraine strikes Turkmen gas deal Ukraine has agreed to pay 30% more for natural gas supplied by Turkmenistan.
Reliance unit loses Anil Ambani Anil Ambani, the younger of the two brothers in charge of India's largest private company, has resigned from running its petrochemicals subsidiary.
India opens skies to competition India will allow domestic commercial airlines to fly long haul international routes, a move it hopes will stoke competition and drive down prices.
Oil rebounds from weather effect Oil prices recovered in Asian trade on Tuesday, after falling in New York on milder winter weather across the US.
Ban on forced retirement under 65 Employers will no longer be able to force workers to retire before 65, unless they can justify it.
Fed warns of more US rate rises The US looks set for a continued boost to interest rates in 2005, according to the Federal Reserve.
Weak end-of-year sales hit Next Next has said its annual profit will be £5m lower than previously expected because its end-of-year clearance sale has proved disappointing.
Tate & Lyle boss bags top award Tate & Lyle's chief executive has been named European Businessman of the Year by a leading business magazine.
Krispy Kreme shares hit Shares in Krispy Kreme Doughnuts have taken a dunking on Wall Street after the firm revealed it would have to restate its 2004 financial reports.
Germany nears 1990 jobless level German unemployment rose for the 11th consecutive month in December - making the year's average jobless total the highest since reunification.
Venezuela identifies 'idle' farms Venezuelan authorities have identified more than 500 farms, including 56 large estates, as idle as it continues with its controversial land reform policy.
Egypt to sell off state-owned bank The Egyptian government is reportedly planning to privatise one of the country's big public banks.
Wal-Mart to pay $14m in gun suit The world's largest retailer, Wal-Mart, has agreed to pay a total of $14.5m (£7.74m) to settle a lawsuit over gun sales violations in California.
Yukos heading back to US courts Russian oil and gas company Yukos is due in a US court on Thursday as it continues to fight for its survival.
Deutsche Boerse set to 'woo' LSE Bosses of Deutsche Boerse and the London Stock Exchange are to meet amid talk that a takeover bid for the LSE will be raised to £1.5bn ($2.9bn).
Laura Ashley chief stepping down Laura Ashley is parting company with its chief executive Ainum Mohd-Saaid.
US Airways staff agree to pay cut A union representing 5,200 flight attendants at bankrupt US Airways have agreed to a new contract that cuts pay by nearly 10%.
Delta cuts fares in survival plan Delta Air Lines is cutting domestic fares by as much as 50% as part of a plan to ensure its financial survival.
Profits jump at China's top bank Industrial and Commercial Bank (ICBC), China's biggest lender, has seen an 18% jump in profits during 2004.
Green reports shun supply chain Nearly 20% more UK top 250 firms produced non-financial reports on social and environment issues than last year.
Tsunami to cost Sri Lanka $1.3bn Sri Lanka faces a $1.3bn (£691m) bill in 2005 for reconstruction after the tsunami which killed more than 30,000 of its people, its central bank says.
Indian oil firm eyes Yukos assets India's biggest oil exploration firm, Oil & Natural Gas Corp (ONGC), says it is in talks to buy the former assets of troubled Russian crude producer Yukos.
Monsanto fined $1.5m for bribery The US agrochemical giant Monsanto has agreed to pay a $1.5m (£799,000) fine for bribing an Indonesian official.
Marsh executive in guilty plea An executive at US insurance firm Marsh & McLennan has pleaded guilty to criminal charges in connection with an ongoing fraud and bid-rigging probe.
US interest rate rise expected US interest rates are expected to rise for the fifth time since June following the US Federal Reserve's latest rate-setting meeting later on Tuesday.
WorldCom bosses' $54m payout Ten former directors at WorldCom have agreed to pay $54m (£28.85m), including $18m from their own pockets, to settle a class action lawsuit, reports say.
Continental 'may run out of cash' Shares in Continental Airlines have tumbled after the firm warned it could run out of cash.
House prices rebound says Halifax UK house prices increased by 1.1% in December, the first monthly rise since September, the Halifax has said.
Mixed Christmas for US retailers US retailers posted mixed results for December - with luxury retailers faring well while many others were forced to slash prices to lift sales.
India's Deccan gets more planes Air Deccan has signed a deal to acquire 36 planes from Avions de Transport Regional (ATR).
South African car demand surges Car manufacturers with plants in South Africa, including BMW, General Motors, Toyota and Volkswagen, have seen a surge in demand during 2004.
UK bank seals South Korean deal UK-based bank Standard Chartered said it would spend $3.3bn (£1.8bn) to buy one of South Korea's main retail banks.
DaimlerChrysler's 2004 sales rise US-German carmaker DaimlerChrysler has sold 2.1% more cars in 2004 than in the previous year, as solid Chrysler sales offset a weak showing for Mercedes.
Tsunami cost hits Jakarta shares The stock market in Jakarta has seen its biggest slide in a month, after the country doubled the likely cost of rebuilding from the Asian tsunami.
Iran budget seeks state sell-offs Iran's president, Mohammad Khatami, has unveiled a budget designed to expand public spending by 30% but loosen the Islamic republic's dependence on oil.
EC calls truce in deficit battle The European Commission (EC) has called a truce in its battle with France and Germany over breaching deficit limits.
Enron bosses in $168m payout Eighteen former Enron directors have agreed a $168m (£89m) settlement deal in a shareholder lawsuit over the collapse of the energy firm.
UK house prices dip in November UK house prices dipped slightly in November, the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (ODPM) has said.
Steady job growth continues in US The US created fewer jobs than expected in December, but analysts said that the dip in hiring was not enough to derail the world's biggest economy.
Barclays shares up on merger talk Shares in UK banking group Barclays have risen on Monday following a weekend press report that it had held merger talks with US bank Wells Fargo.
US firm 'bids for Lacroix label' A US firm has said it is in final negotiations with luxury goods group LVMH to buy the loss-making Christian Lacroix haute-couture house.
$1m payoff for former Shell boss Shell is to pay $1m (£522,000) to the ex-finance chief who stepped down from her post in April 2004 after the firm over-stated its reserves.
India and Iran in gas export deal India has signed a $40bn (£21bn) deal to import millions of tonnes of liquefied natural gas from Iran.
LSE 'sets date for takeover deal' The London Stock Exchange (LSE) is planning to announce a preferred takeover by the end of the month, newspaper reports claim.
News Corp makes $5.4bn Fox offer News Corporation is seeking to buy out minority investors in Fox Entertainment Group, its broadcasting subsidiary, for about $5.4bn (£3.7bn).
Israel looks to US for bank chief Israel has asked a US banker and former International Monetary Fund director to run its central bank.
EU-US seeking deal on air dispute The EU and US have agreed to begin talks on ending subsidies given to aircraft makers, EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson has announced.
Nortel in $300m profit revision Telecoms equipment maker Nortel Networks has sharply revised downwards its profits for the 2003 fiscal year.
Minister hits out at Yukos sale Russia's renationalisation of its energy industry needs to be reversed, a senior government figure has warned.
Chinese exports rise 25% in 2004 Exports from China leapt during 2004 over the previous year as the country continued to show breakneck growth.
Karachi stocks hit historic high The Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE) has recorded its largest single day gain, surging 3.5% to a new high.
US trade gap ballooned in October The US trade deficit widened by more than expected in October, hitting record levels after higher oil prices raised import costs, figures have shown
US prepares for hybrid onslaught Sales of hybrid cars in the US are set to double in 2005, research suggests.
Mitsubishi in Peugeot link talks Trouble-hit Mitsubishi Motors is in talks with French carmaker PSA Peugeot Citroen about a possible alliance.
BA to suspend two Saudi services British Airways is to halt its flights from London Heathrow to Jeddah and Riyadh in Saudi Arabia from 27 March.
Cairn Energy in Indian gas find Shares in Cairn Energy rose 3.8% to 1,088 pence on Tuesday after the UK firm announced a fresh gas discovery in northern India.
Asia quake increases poverty risk Nearly two million people across Asia could be thrown into poverty because of the Indian Ocean tsunami, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) has said.
Fosters buys stake in winemaker Australian brewer Fosters has bought a large stake in Australian winemaker Southcorp, sparking rumours of a possible takeover.
ECB holds rates amid growth fears The European Central Bank has left its key interest rate unchanged at 2% for the 19th month in succession.
China bans new tobacco factories The world's biggest tobacco consumer, China, has said it will not allow any new tobacco factories to be built.
UK interest rates held at 4.75% The Bank of England has left interest rates on hold again at 4.75%, in a widely-predicted move.
German economy rebounds Germany's economy, the biggest among the 12 countries sharing the euro, grew at its fastest rate in four years during 2004, driven by strong exports.
US trade deficit widens sharply The gap between US exports and imports has widened to more than $60bn (£31.7bn), an all-time record.
Trade gap narrows as exports rise The UK's trade gap narrowed in November, helped by a 7.5% rise in exports outside the European Union.
Lesotho textile workers lose jobs Six foreign-owned textile factories have closed in Lesotho, leaving 6,650 garment workers jobless, union officers told the AP news agency.
Kraft cuts snack ads for children Kraft plans to cut back on advertising of products like Oreo cookies and sugary Kool-Aid drinks as part of an effort to promote healthy eating.
Khodorkovsky quits Yukos shares Jailed tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky has transferred his controlling stake in oil giant Yukos to a business partner.
Executive trio leave Aer Lingus Three senior executives of Ireland's state-owned airline, Aer Lingus, are set to leave early on 28 January after accusations of a conflict of interest.
US in EU tariff chaos trade row The US has asked the World Trade Organisation to investigate European Union customs tariffs, which it says are inconsistent and hamper trade.
News Corp eyes video games market News Corp, the media company controlled by Australian billionaire Rupert Murdoch, is eyeing a move into the video games market.
US Ahold suppliers face charges US prosecutors have charged nine food suppliers with helping Dutch retailer Ahold inflate earnings by more than $800m (£428m).
Wal-Mart fights back at accusers Two big US names have launched advertising campaigns to "set the record straight" about their products and corporate behaviour.
US retail sales surge in December US retail sales ended the year on a high note with solid gains in December, boosted by strong car sales.
Winemaker rejects Foster's offer Australian winemaker Southcorp has rejected a takeover offer worth 3.1bn Australian dollars ($2.3bn; £1.8bn) from brewing giant Foster's Group.
McDonald's boss Bell dies aged 44 Charlie Bell, the straight-talking former head of fast-food giant McDonald's, has died of cancer aged 44.
US industrial output growth eases US industrial production continued to rise in November, albeit at a slower pace than the previous month.
LSE doubts boost bidders' shares Shares in Deutsche Boerse have risen more than 3% after a shareholder fund voiced opposition to the firm's planned takeover of the London Stock Exchange.
Qantas considers offshore option Australian airline Qantas could transfer as many as 7,000 jobs out of its home country as it seeks to save costs, according to newspaper reports.
Gazprom 'in $36m back-tax claim' The nuclear unit of Russian energy giant Gazprom is reportedly facing a 1bn rouble ($35.7m; £19.1m) back-tax claim for the 2001-2003 period.
Germany calls for EU reform German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has called for radical reform of the EU's stability pact to grant countries more flexibility over their budget deficits.
Parmalat founder offers apology The founder and former boss of Parmalat has apologised to investors who lost money as a result of the Italian dairy firm's collapse.
'Golden economic period' to end Ten years of "golden" economic performance may come to an end in 2005 with growth slowing markedly, City consultancy Deloitte has warned.
Jobs go at Oracle after takeover Oracle has announced it is cutting about 5,000 jobs following the completion of its $10.3bn takeover of its smaller rival Peoplesoft last week.
Beijingers fume over parking fees Choking traffic jams in Beijing are prompting officials to look at reorganising car parking charges.
GM issues 2005 profits warning General Motors has warned that it expects earnings this year be lower than in 2004.
US economy still growing says Fed Most areas of the US saw their economy continue to expand in December and early January, the US Federal Reserve said in its latest Beige Book report.
Wall Street cool to eBay's profit Shares in online auction house eBay fell 9.8% in after-hours trade on Wednesday, after its quarterly profits failed to meet market expectations.
WorldCom trial starts in New York The trial of Bernie Ebbers, former chief executive of bankrupt US phone company WorldCom, has started in New York with the selection of the jury.
High fuel costs hit US airlines Two of the largest airlines in the US - American and Southwest - have blamed record fuel prices for their disappointing quarterly results.
European losses hit GM's profits General Motors (GM) saw its net profits fall 37% in the last quarter of 2004, as it continued to be hit by losses at its European operations.
EU to probe Alitalia 'state aid' The European Commission has officially launched an in-depth investigation into whether Italian airline Alitalia is receiving illegal state aid.
IMF agrees fresh Turkey funding Turkey has agreed a draft proposal with the International Monetary Fund to borrow $10bn (£5.19bn), extending its ongoing financial support until 2007.
Saudi investor picks up the Savoy London's famous Savoy hotel has been sold to a group combining Saudi billionaire investor Prince Alwaleed bin Talal and a unit of HBOS bank.
Tsunami slows Sri Lanka's growth Sri Lanka's president has launched a reconstruction drive worth $3.5bn (£1.8bn) by appealing for peace and national unity.
China suspends 26 power projects China has ordered a halt to construction work on 26 big power stations, including two at the Three Gorges Dam, on environmental grounds.
Two Nigerian banks set to merge Nigerian banks United Bank of Africa and Standard Trust Bank have agreed plans to merge and create the biggest bank in West Africa.
Virgin Blue shares plummet 20% Shares in Australian budget airline Virgin Blue plunged 20% after it warned of a steep fall in full year profits.
Watchdog probes Vivendi bond sale French stock market regulator AMF has filed complaints against media giant Vivendi Universal, its boss and another top executive.
Saudi NCCI's shares soar Shares in Saudi Arabia's National Company for Cooperative Insurance (NCCI) soared on their first day of trading in Riyadh.
JP Morgan admits US slavery links Thousands of slaves were accepted as collateral for loans by two banks that later became part of JP Morgan Chase.
Egypt and Israel seal trade deal In a sign of a thaw in relations between Egypt and Israel, the two countries have signed a trade protocol with the US, allowing Egyptian goods made in partnership with Israeli firms free access to American markets.
Ford gains from finance not cars Ford, the US car company, reported higher fourth quarter and full-year profits on Thursday boosted by a buoyant period for its car loans unit.
Wipro beats forecasts once again Wipro, India's third-biggest software firm, has reported a 60% rise in profit, topping market expectations.
Christmas sales worst since 1981 UK retail sales fell in December, failing to meet expectations and making it by some counts the worst Christmas since 1981.
Businesses fail to plan for HIV Companies fail to draw up plans to cope with HIV/Aids until it affects 20% of people in a country, new research says.
Ailing EuroDisney vows turnaround EuroDisney, the European home of Mickey Mouse and friends, has said it will sell 253m euros (£175m; $328m) of new shares as it looks to avoid insolvency.
UK young top Euro earnings league British children enjoy the highest average annual income in Europe - more than double that of Spanish or Italian youngsters, a report suggests.
Swiss cement firm in buying spree Swiss cement firm Holcim has bid $800m (£429m) to buy two Indian cement firms and a holding company in the country.
India's Reliance family feud heats up The ongoing public spat between the two heirs of India's biggest conglomerate, Reliance Group, has spilled over to the board meeting of a leading company within the group.
World leaders gather to face uncertainty More than 2,000 business and political leaders from around the globe are arriving in the Swiss mountain resort Davos for the annual World Economic Forum (WEF). For five days, they will discuss issues ranging from China's economic power to Iraq's future after this Sunday's elections. UK Prime Minister Tony Blair and South African President Thabo Mbeki are among the more than 20 government leaders and heads of state leaders attending the meeting. Unlike previous years, protests against the WEF are expected to be muted. Anti-globalisation campaigners have called off a demonstration planned for the weekend.
US budget deficit to reach $368bn The US budget deficit is set to hit a worse-than-expected $368bn (£197bn) this year, officials said on Tuesday.
Criminal probe on Citigroup deals Traders at US banking giant Citigroup are facing a criminal investigation in Germany over a controversial bond deal.
Brazil jobless rate hits new low Brazil's unemployment rate fell to its lowest level in three years in December, according to the government.
Indonesia 'declines debt freeze' Indonesia no longer needs the debt freeze offered by the Paris Club group of creditors, Economics Minister Aburizal Bakrie has reportedly said.
Parmalat bank barred from suing Bank of America has been banned from suing Parmalat, the food group which went bust in 2003 after an accounting scandal.
China continues rapid growth China's economy has expanded by a breakneck 9.5% during 2004, faster than predicted and well above 2003's 9.1%.
SEC to rethink post-Enron rules The US stock market watchdog's chairman has said he is willing to soften tough new US corporate governance rules to ease the burden on foreign firms.
BBC poll indicates economic gloom Citizens in a majority of nations surveyed in a BBC World Service poll believe the world economy is worsening.
Europe asks Asia for euro help European leaders say Asian states must let their currencies rise against the US dollar to ease pressure on the euro.
FBI agent colludes with analyst A former FBI agent and an internet stock picker have been found guilty of using confidential US government information to manipulate stock prices.
Millions go missing at China bank Two senior officials at one of China's top commercial banks have reportedly disappeared after funds worth up to $120m (£64m) went missing.
China Aviation seeks rescue deal Scandal-hit jet fuel supplier China Aviation Oil has offered to repay its creditors $220m (£117m) of the $550m it lost on trading in oil futures.
Low-cost airlines hit Eurotunnel Channel Tunnel operator Eurotunnel has seen sales fall in the face of the upsurge in European low-cost airlines.
Water firm Suez in Argentina row A conflict between the Argentine State and water firm Aguas Argentinas, controlled by France's Suez, is casting doubt on the firm's future.
Algeria hit by further gas riots Algeria suffered a weekend of violent protests against government plans to raise gas prices, local press reports.
India's Maruti sees profits jump India's biggest carmaker Maruti has reported a sharp increase in quarterly profit after a booming economy and low interest rates boosted demand.
Aids and climate top Davos agenda Climate change and the fight against Aids are leading the list of concerns for the first day of the World Economic Forum in the Swiss resort of Davos.
China now top trader with Japan China overtook the US to become Japan's biggest trading partner in 2004, according to numbers released by Japan's Finance Ministry on Wednesday.
Trial begins of Spain's top banker The trial of Emilio Botin, the chairman of Spain's most powerful bank, Santander Central Hispano, has started in Madrid.
UK economy ends year with spurt The UK economy grew by an estimated 3.1% in 2004 after accelerating in the last quarter of the year, says the Office for National Statistics (ONS).
HealthSouth ex-boss goes on trial The former head of US medical services firm HealthSouth overstated earnings and assets to boost the company's share price, it was claimed in court.
Euro firms miss out on optimism More than 90% of large companies around the world are highly optimistic about their economic prospects, a survey of 1,300 bosses suggests.
Lacroix label bought by US firm Luxury goods group LVMH has sold its loss-making Christian Lacroix clothing label to a US investment group.
