%%%Meltdown2009——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597056cefc42d78dc5a60" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Meltdown-Like 'LazyFP' Vulnerability Impacts Intel CPUs", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/meltdown-lazyfp-vulnerability-impacts-intel-cpus", "Date" : "June 14, 2018", "Article" : "Intel and software vendors have started informing users about a new vulnerability involving side channel speculative execution that could be exploited by malicious actors to obtain sensitive information from the targeted system. Dubbed LazyFP, the security hole is related to the floating point unit (FPU), also known as the math coprocessor. The FPU is used by the operating system when switching between processes u2013 it saves the state of the current process and restores the state of the new process. There are two types of switching, Lazy FPU and Eager FPU switching. Lazy FPU switching provides some benefits for performance, but on modern systems the gain has become negligible, which has led to an increasing use of Eager switching. Researchers discovered recently that if the Lazy method is used, it may be possible for an attacker to access FPU state data, which can contain sensitive information, such as cryptographic keys. u201cSystem software may opt to utilize Lazy FP state restore instead of eager save and restore of the state upon a context switch. Lazy restored states are potentially vulnerable to exploits where one process may infer register values of other processes through a speculative execution side channel that infers their value,u201d Intel said in an advisory. The vulnerability, tracked as CVE-2018-3665, is similar to Meltdown, specifically Variant 3a, but the issue has been assigned only a u201cmediumu201d severity rating. Julian Stecklina from Amazon Germany, Thomas Prescher from Cyberus Technology and Zdenek Sojka from SYSGO AG have been credited for finding the vulnerability. Colin Percival has also been credited, but the researcher says he only wrote an exploit for the flaw. Cyberus has published a blog post for the LazyFP vulnerability, but it has withheld some details at Intelu2019s request. Each advisory, blog post and discussion focusing on LazyFP provides some clues as to which systems may be affected. Intel says the vulnerability affects its Core processors, which are marketed as Xeon for servers. The company claims the issue has been addressed by operating system and hypervisor software developers for many years, and vendors that are still impacted should release updates in the coming weeks. Systems using AMD or ARM processors do not appear to be impacted.u00a0u201cBased on our analysis to-date, we do not believe our products are susceptible to the recent security vulnerability identified around lazy FPU switching,u201du00a0AMD told SecurityWeek. Microsoft has yet to say exactly which versions of Windows are vulnerable, but the company noted that u201cLazy restoreu201d is enabled by default in all versions of the operating system and cannot be disabled. The tech giant assured customers that VMs running in Azure are not at risk. AWS told customers that its infrastructure is not affected, but advised them to ensure their operating systems are always up to date. The Xen Project says systems running any version of Xen are vulnerable. In the case of Linux, recent versions of the kernel use Eager FPU. On systems using older processors, the vulnerability can be mitigated by booting the kernel with the u201ceagerfpu=onu201d parameter to enable Eager FPU. Red Hat, DragonflyBSD and OpenBSD have published advisories. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597666cefc42d78dc5b64" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Microsoft Fixes Windows Flaw Introduced by Meltdown Patches", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/microsoft-fixes-windows-flaw-introduced-meltdown-patch", "Date" : "March 30, 2018", "Article" : "Microsoft has released out-of-band updates for Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2 to address a serious privilege escalation vulnerability introduced earlier this year by the Meltdown mitigations. Researcher Ulf Frisk reported this week that the patches released by Microsoft in January and February for the Meltdown vulnerability created an even bigger security hole that allows an attacker to read from and write to memory at significant speeds. Frisk disclosed details of the bug since Microsoftu2019s security updates for March appeared to have addressed the issue. However, an investigation conducted by the tech giant revealed that the flaw had not been properly fixed. Microsoft informed customers on Thursday that a new patch has been released for Windows 7 x64 Service Pack 1 and Windows Server 2008 R2 x64 Service Pack 1 to fully resolve the problem. u201cCustomers who apply the updates, or have automatic updates enabled, are protected.u201d a Microsoft spokesperson said. The vulnerability, tracked as CVE-2018-1038 and rated u201cimportant,u201d has been patched with the KB4100480 update. Users are advised to install the update as soon as possible, particularly since some Microsoft employees believe it will likely be exploited in the wild soon. u201cAn elevation of privilege vulnerability exists when the Windows kernel fails to properly handle objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could run arbitrary code in kernel mode. An attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights,u201d Microsoft said in an advisory. Frisk explained in a blog post that while the Meltdown vulnerability allows an attacker to read megabytes of data per second, the new flaw can be exploited to read gigabytes of data per second. In one of the tests he conducted, the researcher managed to access the memory at speeds of over 4 Gbps. The security hole can also be exploited to write to memory. Exploiting the flaw is easy once the attacker has gained access to the targeted system. A direct memory access (DMA) attack tool developed by Frisk can be used to reproduce the vulnerability. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3834b76cefc42b0029463f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Microsoft Fixes Bad Patch That Left Windows 7, Server 2008 Open to Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-fixes-bad-patch-that-left-windows-7-server-2008-open-to-attack/130871/", "Date" : "March 30, 2018 , 2:51 pm", "Article" : "Microsoft released an out-of-band fix on Thursday for a Windows vulnerability introduced earlier this year as a patch. If exploited, the bug could allow an authenticated attacker to install programs, access stored data or create new accounts with full user rights onu00a0Windows 7 and Server 2008 R2 machines. No other Windows OS version is impacted. The bad patch was delivered via Microsoftu2019su00a0January Patch Tuesday update. The fix was meant to protect Windowsu2019 system from memory vulnerabilities associated with Intelu2019s CPU bug Meltdown. Researcher Ulf Frisk, credited for first identifying the flaw, said Microsoftu2019s botched patch u201cstopped Meltdown but opened up a vulnerability way worse u2026 It allowed any process to read the complete memory contents at gigabytes per second, oh u2013 it was possible to write to arbitrary memory as well.u201d As part of his research, Frisku00a0created a proof-of-concept exploiting the bug, publishing his findings inu00a0a technicalu00a0 break down. u201cWe released a security update for Windows 7 Service Pack 1 (x64) and Windows Server 2008 R2 Service Pack 1 (x64). Customers who apply the updates, or have automatic updates enabled, are protected,u201d Microsoft said in a statement Thursday. Microsoft said the bug (CVE-2018-1038) is a Windows kernel elevation of privilege vulnerability. It said: In order for an attacker to exploit this vulnerability they would first have to log on to the targeted PC and then run a u201cspecially craftedu201d application to hijack the system, according to Microsoft. u201cThe update addresses the vulnerability by correcting how the Windows kernel handles objects in memory,u201d the advisory states. Frisk had originally stated Microsoftu2019s March Patch Tuesday update corrected the issue.u00a0On Thursday, Frisk now says Microsoftu2019s March Patch Tuesday update did not fix the vulnerability.u00a0Frisk has made his proof-of-concept available via a PCILeech direct memory access attack toolkit,u00a0hosted on GitHub. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383aaf6cefc42b00294ecf" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Facebook Open Sources Host Monitoring Tool, Increases Internet Defense Prize", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/facebook-open-sources-host-monitoring-tool-increases-internet-defense-prize/109073/", "Date" : "October 29, 2014 , 1:00 pm", "Article" : "Facebook is in a giving mood today. The social networking giant announced today that it will release to open source a framework that detects and logs state changes in an operating system likely caused by an attack or performance meltdown. It also announced that it will hand out up to $300,000 next year as part of its Internet Defense Prize. The osquery framework takes a unique approach to intrusion detection by exposing an operating system as a relational database, said Mike Arpaia, a Facebook engineer who along with Ted Reed, Javier Marcos de Prado and Mimeframe, make up the osquery development team. Osquery is cross platform and is supported on Ubuntu, CentOS and Mac OS X. u201cThis design allows you to write SQL-based queries efficiently and easily to explore operating systems,u201d Arpai said, adding that SQL tables can be used to represent a current state of running processes, loaded kernel modules and open network connections. Admins can use queries to interact with processes that are executing on an operating system and look for behaviors that would occur only if a system were compromised. Arpaia also offered other examples where different tables could be joined, for example joining listening ports and processes could expose all processes that are listening on network ports. u201cTables are easy to write, so we often encourage new contributors to develop a few tables as an introduction to the osquery codebase,u201d Arpaia said. The codebase is modular and todayu2019s release also includes several other tools including an interactive query console called osqueryi, which includes dozens of built-in SQL tables. Also included is a host-monitoring daemon called osqueryd, which enables a user to schedule queries for execution across an infrastructure. u201cThe daemon takes care of aggregating the query results over time, and generates logs which indicate state changes in your infrastructure. You can use this to maintain insight into the security, performance, configuration and state of your entire infrastructure,u201d Arpaia said. u201cOsquerydu2019s logging can integrate into your existing internal log aggregation pipeline, regardless of your technology stack, via a robust plugin architecture.u201d Arpaia said Facebook shared osquery with a few external companies and integrated their feedback into the current codebase, which is availabie on Github. Osquery is also eligible for Facebooku2019s Whitehat program. Researchers participating in the program can now submit vulnerabilities found in the code and be eligible for a bounty. Facebook said that a minimum vulnerability payout if $2,500, and there is not maximum. To be eligible, the bug must reside in the osquery core code, and among the bugs eligible are privilege escalation and remote code execution, Arpaia said. As for Internet Defense Prize, Facebook said it will continue to work with USENIX as it did this year to evaluate submissions and determine prize winners, which will be paid out next August at the USENIX security conference. At this yearu2019s event, Facebook paid out $50,000 to a pair of German researchers for a static analysis tool that detected second order vulnerabilities. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383e6b6cefc42b00295322" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Waves of Tsunami Spam Continue", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/waves-tsunami-spam-continue-032111/75051/", "Date" : "March 21, 2011 , 7:34 pm", "Article" : "There has been no respite from the tsunami of scam-emails taking advantage of the natural disaster-nuclear meltdown combo punch that is hitting Japan, according to research from Kaspersky Labs.  As pleas for charitable donations for victims of the magnitude 9 earthquake in northern Japan fill the airwaves, online scam artists are getting in on the act, also, according to Kaspersky researcher Michael Molsner, who took a closer look at one such spam email that attempts to exploit our philanthropy. Spammers are using phony Japanese e-mail addresses to make their messages appear more legitimate, while asking for Western Union money transfers, as well as personally identifiable information of victims, Molsner wrote in a blog post Monday. As always, beware of messages from unfamiliar or new email addresses. Further, you should always be suspicious of emails asking you to disclose any personally identifiable information, Molsner warns. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3841de6cefc42b0029571f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "800 Virginia PCs Destroyed By Possible u2018Time Bombu2019", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/800-virginia-pcs-destroyed-possible-time-bomb-021710/73550/", "Date" : "February 17, 2010 , 3:22 pm", "Article" : "The City of Norfolk, Virginia is reeling from a massive computer meltdown in which an unidentified family of malicious code destroyed data on nearly 800 computers citywide. Read the full article. [KrebsonSecurity] " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38449b6cefc42b00295a26" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Honeynet Project finds way to fingerprint Conficker infections", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/honeynet-project-finds-way-fingerprint-conficker-infections-033009/72453/", "Date" : "March 30, 2009 , 2:14 pm", "Article" : " Just days ahead of an April 1st activation date for the Conficker worm, a pair of security researchers from the Honeynet Project have scored a major breakthrough, finding a way to remotely and anonymously fingerprint the malware on infected networks. Now, with the help of Dan Kaminsky and Rich Mogull, off-the-shelf network scanning vendors, including the freely available nmap, have the ability to quickly detect Conficker infections. n u201cYou can literally ask a server if itu2019s infected with Conficker, and it will tell you,u201d Kaminsky said in an interview. u201cUsually, we get to scan for a vulnerability but, because Conficker actually changes the way that Windows looks on a network, we now get to scan and get a u201cthis box is infectedu201d message which is pretty rare.u201dn All the credit for the breakthrough goes to the Honeynet Projectu2019s Tillmann Werner and Felix Leder, two German researchers who figured out that malware tries to patch the same security flaw (MS08-067) that it exploited during the initial infection.u00a0 Conficker uses a binary patch u2014 NetpwPathCanonicalize() works quite a bit differently u2014 which means that network scanners can pinpoint the existence of the malware. The Honeynet Project has released proof of concept scanner and, later today (March 30th), enterprise-class scanners are expected to follow suit.u00a0 They will include Tenable (Nessus), Foundstone, nmap, ncircle, and Qualys, Kaminsky said. The nmap scanner is freely available. The Conficker malware is programmed to generate thousands of domain names a day and, on April 1st, infected machines will start calling home to the authors for further instructions.u00a0 However, as Joe Stewart explains, this does not mean there will be a computer meltdown on April 1. Hereu2019s why you shouldnu2019t fear the wormu2019s activation date: For the best analysis of what Conficker is u2014 and isnu2019t u2014 read this detailed analysis by SRI International. *Graph courtesy of centr.org/ " }n"
%%%Spectre2017——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3596f16cefc42d78dc5a2f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Chrome 65 Patches 45 Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/chrome-65-patches-45-vulnerabilities", "Date" : "March 07, 2018", "Article" : "Released in the stable channel this week, Chrome 65 brings 45 security fixes, including 27 patches for vulnerabilities discovered by external researchers. The browser also includes an updated JavaScript engine, namely V8 version 6.5. Announced in early February and initially made available in Chrome 65 Beta, the new V8 engine includes an untrusted code mode meant to mitigate the latest speculative side-channel attack called Spectre.  The 27 vulnerabilities reported by researchers include 9 security flaws assessed with a High severity rating, 15 bugs considered Medium risk, and 3 issues with a Low severity rating.  Google rewarded the researchers over $34,000 in bug bounties, but hasnu2019t provided details on all payouts in the published advisory.  The most important of the addressed bugs are two High risk use after free in Flash (CVE-2018-6058 and CVE-2018-6059). Both were reported by JieZeng of Tencent Zhanlu Lab in August 2017 and were awarded a $5,000 bounty each.  Google also addressed a Use after free in Blink (CVE-2018-6060) and a Race condition in V8 (CVE-2018-6061) u2013 two High severity flaws awarded $3,000 each u2013, as well as a Heap buffer overflow in Skia (CVE-2018-6062) u2013 awarded $1,000.  Other High risk issues resolved in Chrome 65 include two incorrect permissions on shared memory bugs, one Type confusion in V8, and one Integer overflow in V8.  The most important of the Medium risk issues was CVE-2018-6066, a Same Origin Bypass via canvas that was awarded a $4,000 bounty.  Other Medium severity issues addressed in this release include Buffer overflow in Skia, Object lifecycle issues in Chrome Custom Tab, Stack buffer overflow in Skia, CSP bypass through extensions, Heap buffer overflow in Skia, Integer overflow in PDFium, Heap buffer overflow in WebGL, and Mark-of-the-Web bypass.  Google also addressed an overly permissive cross origin download, incorrect handling of URL fragment identifiers in Blink, a timing attack using SVG filters, URL Spoof in OmniBox, Information disclosure via texture data in WebGL, and u00a0Information disclosure in IPC call.  The three Low risk bugs resolved in the browser include XSS in interstitials, circumvention of port blocking, and incorrect processing of AppManifests. The new application release is available for download as version Chrome 65.0.3325.146 for Windows, Mac and Linux computers. Chrome for Android has been updated as well, now available as version 65.0.3325.109.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597ab6cefc42d78dc5c17" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Dormant Keylogger Functionality Found in HP Laptops", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/dormant-keylogging-functionality-found-hp-laptops", "Date" : "December 11, 2017", "Article" : "A researcher has discovered that a touchpad driver present on hundreds of HP laptops includes functionality that can be abused for logging keystrokes. The vendor has released patches for a vast majority of affected devices. Michael Myng was looking for ways to control the keyboard backlight functionality on HP laptops when he noticed that the driver from Synaptics (SynTP.sys) included keylogging functionality. The problematic code is apparently part of a debugger implemented through the Windows software trace preprocessor (WPP). The feature is disabled by default, but a user with administrator privileges can enabled it by changing a value in the Windows registry, allowing them to log keystrokes to a local file. Myng informed HP of his findings and the company released updates that remove the problematic debugging functionality for nearly all impacted products. However, devices from other vendors that use this Synaptics driver could be affected as well. u201cA potential security vulnerability has been identified with certain versions of Synaptics touchpad drivers that impacts all Synaptics OEM partners,u201d HP said in its advisory. u201cA party would need administrative privileges in order to take advantage of the vulnerability. Neither Synaptics nor HP has access to customer data as a result of this issue.u201d The vulnerability, classified by the vendor as u201cmedium severity,u201d impacts more than 460 laptop models, including many EliteBook, mt, ProBook, Spectre Pro, Stream, ZBook, Envy, Pavilion, Split and Omen devices. Some people have pointed out that an attacker who has the privileges required to activate the keylogger functionality could do anything on the system, including install a proper keylogger, and would not need to exploit this vulnerability. Others, however, believe it could still be useful for malicious actors since the keylogging mechanism is already in place. This is not the first time keylogging functionality has been found in software shipped with HP laptops. Back in May, researchers discovered that a Conexant audio driver installed on some HP laptops had been logging keystrokes to a file. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597cb6cefc42d78dc5c68" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Tech Giants Warn of Crypto Flaw in Infineon Chips", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/tech-giants-warn-crypto-flaw-infineon-chips", "Date" : "October 16, 2017", "Article" : "Microsoft, Google, HP, Lenovo and Fujitsu have warned customers of a potentially serious crypto-related vulnerability affecting some chips made by German semiconductor manufacturer Infineon Technologies. TPM vulnerability allows attackers to obtain private RSA keys The flaw, tracked as CVE-2017-15361, is related to the Trusted Platform Module (TPM), an international standard designed for protecting crypto processes within computing devices, and for securely storing encryption keys, passwords, certificates and other sensitive data. TPM has been implemented in some Infineon microcontrollers in an effort to secure hardware. The problem is that RSA encryption keys generated by the TPM (e.g. for disk encryption purposes) can be cracked due to the use of a technique known as u201cFast Prime.u201d This is an algorithm that helps accelerate the generation of RSA public and private key pairs. The issue was discovered by a team of researchers from the Masaryk University in the Czech Republic, Enigma Bridge in the UK, and Ca' Foscari University of Venice, Italy. According to experts, the vulnerability allows an attacker who knows the public key to obtain the private RSA key. The attack can be carried out remotely and all keys generated by vulnerable chips are affected. Researchers said a 1024 bit RSA key can be cracked in 97 CPU days for a cost of $40-80 using an older Intel Xeon processor, and a 2048 bit key in 140 CPU years for a cost ranging between $20,000 and $40,000. Infineon estimated that a 2048 bit key can be cracked within one month using 600 CPUs. u201cThe private key can be misused for impersonation of a legitimate owner, decryption of sensitive messages, forgery of signatures (such as for software releases) and other related attacks,u201d researchers said. u201cThe actual impact of the vulnerability depends on the usage scenario, availability of the public keys and the lengths of keys used. We found and analyzed vulnerable keys in various domains including electronic citizen documents, authentication tokens, trusted boot devices, software package signing, TLS/HTTPS keys and PGP. The currently confirmed number of vulnerable keys found is about 760,000 but possibly up to two to three magnitudes more are vulnerable,u201d they added.  Full technical details will be released in early November at the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS). Affected tech giants release advisories The vulnerability was discovered at the end of January and it was reported to Infineon in February. The company has been working with affected hardware OEMs and PC manufacturers to address the problem. Infineon has released a firmware update that patches the vulnerability, and Microsoft, Google, HP, Lenovo and Fujitsu have released security advisories to alert customers. Microsoft, which said it had not been aware of any attacks in the wild, has released Windows security updates, but warned users that the TPM firmware updates also need to be installed and previously created keys should be reissued. HP has released updates for many of its notebooks, mobile workstations, thin clients, commercial desktops, retail systems, and workstation desktops. The list of affected models includes Chromebook, Elite, EliteBook, mt and t thin clients, Pro, ProBook, Stream, ZBook, ZHAN, 260 G1/G2, 280 G1/G2, 406 G1/G2, Elite Slice, EliteDesk, EliteOne, ElitePOS, MP9, ProDesk, ProOne, RP9, Z workstations, Envy, Spectre, and OMEN X. Lenovo said many of its products are not affected by the flaw. The list of impacted devices includes various ThinkCentre, ThinkPad and ThinkStation models. Google has also shared a list of affected Chromebooks. The company said Chrome OS relies on TPM-generated RSA keys for several features, including to slow down brute-force attacks, for hardware backed encryption keys and certificates, and the certification process for Verified Access. Fujitsu has released various tools to address the weakness in OEM mainboards, ESPRIMO desktop PCs, FUTRO thin clients, CELSIUS workstations, LIFEBOOK notebooks, STYLISTIC tablets, and PRIMERGY servers. The WinMagic full disk encryption software is also affected, according to Infineon, but no advisory is available at the time of writing. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835246cefc42b002946be" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches 34 Browser Bugs in Chrome 67, Adds Spectre Fixes", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-patches-34-browser-bugs-in-chrome-67-adds-spectre-fixes/132370/", "Date" : "May 30, 2018 , 11:32 am", "Article" : "Google updated its Chrome browser to version 67.0.3396.62 on Tuesday patching 34 bugs and adding support for theu00a0credential management API called WebAuthn. The update will be available in the coming days foru00a0Windows, Mac and Linux platforms, Google said. Most notably to the browser update are mitigations for Spectre.u00a0The fix includes an added feature called Site Isolation that essentially separates the processes between different tabs u2013 so that if one tab crashes, the others will continue to work.u00a0 This also protects against speculative side-channel CPU vulnerabilities like Spectre because it reduces the amount of data exposed to side channel attacks. u201cWeu2019re continuing to roll out Site Isolation to a larger percentage of the stable population in Chrome 67,u201d said Chrome in its security release. u201cSite Isolation improves Chromeu2019s security and helps mitigate the risks posed by Spectre.u201d Bug fixes for Chrome 67 include nine rated high. One of them is an out of bounds memory access bug (CVE-2018-6130) in Web Real Time Communication (WebRTC), whichu00a0is an open-source project providing web browsers with real-time communication through simple APIs. Google also patched a heap buffer overflow glitch in open source graphics library Skia (CVE-2018-6126) and an overly permissive policy bug (CVE-2018-6125) in the WebUSB API, which provides a way to expose USB device services to the Web. Below is a full list of the vulnerabilities fixed that are rated high. Part of the Google update also included the introduction of theu00a0WebAuthnu00a0API into Chrome 67. This API enables users to log into their accounts using alternative methods such as with biometric options ranging from fingerprint readers, iris scans or facial recognition. Mozilla has also recently packaged this feature into Firefox a few weeks ago with the release of Firefox 60. Finally, the latest version of Chrome has deprecated the browseru2019s support for HTTP public key pinning; instead adopting the more flexible solution of Expect-CT headers. This plan was first announced in 2017 after Google argued that public key pinning runs the risk of leaving website admins open to difficulties selecting a reliable set of keys to pin to. Chrome 67 for desktops isu00a0currently available. Android and Chrome OS versions will follow soon after. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835f76cefc42b002947d3" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Firefox, Chrome Patch Vulnerabilities, Add Security Features", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/firefox-chrome-patch-vulnerabilities-add-security-features/129658/", "Date" : "January 25, 2018 , 1:51 pm", "Article" : "Both Mozilla and Google have updated their browsers this week and have added important security fixes along with bolstering user privacy and safety. Google tackled 53 security fixesu00a0on Wednesday with the debut of Chrome 64 (version 64.0.3282.119) for Windows, Mac and Linux. Only three of the vulnerabilities patched are rated high with 13 ranked medium in severity. Most notable is a patch to protect against the web-exploitable Spectre CPU vulnerability. Google did not offer an in-depth analysis of this patch, only stating u201cthis release contains additional mitigations against speculative side-channel attack techniques.u201d One of high-severity vulnerabilities (CVE-2018-6031) is tied to Googleu2019s problem-plagued Chrome default PDF viewer, called PDFium. Two additional vulnerabilities rated high were also patched. One (CVE-2018-6032) is only described as a u201csame origin bypass in shared workeru201d vulnerability and the other (CVE-2018-6033) is a u201crace when opening downloaded filesu201d bug. In addition to fixes, Google also introduced security features with Chrome 64, originally part of the beta version of the browser, introduced last month. Those features include a u201cstrongeru201d pop-up blocker that targets swatting down u201clinks to third-party websites disguised as play buttons or other site controls, or transparent overlays on websites that capture all clicks and open new tabs or windows,u201d Google said. Google has also introduced a developer Abusive Experiences Reportu00a0tool, available in the Google Search Console, that allows site owners to check if any u201cabusive experiencesu201d have been found on their sites. On Thursday, Google also introducedu00a0a new ad-muting feature, unrelated to security, which should be popular with users. This feature allows users to u201cmuteu201d ads that track users around the web. For example, if a user browses Ray-Ban sunglasses at a merchantu2019s site, there is a good chance ads for Ray-Ban sunglasses will stalk users on their phone, apps and desktop browser. Google used to allow user to mute tracking ads in the browser context. But, its new Mute This Ad feature now extends the muting feature across Google, on websites, and in apps u2013 so long as the ad originates from a Google ad partner. In the coming months, Google said it plans to extend the feature to YouTube and Gmail. Mozilla Adds Always-On Ban on Web Tracking  Mozilla fixed two critical bugs in Firefox with the release ofu00a0Firefox 58 Quantum, introduced on Tuesday.u00a0 Also patched were eight vulnerabilities rated high. One of the most serious bugs is a critical u201cmemory safetyu201d flaw (CVE-2018-5089) that u201cwith enough effortu201d could allow a hacker exploit the vulnerability and run arbitrary code on targeted devices. A second critical use-after-free Firefox bug was also patched by Mozilla Firefox. According to Mozillau2019s Security Advisory, the bug (CVE-2018-5091) is tied to the browseru2019s DTMF feature. DTMF, or Dual-tone multi-frequency signaling, describes a Firefox component that uses u201ctouch tonesu201d within the browseru2019s WebRTC framework that can be used to initiate calls to a legacy telephone network that rely on DTMF. u201cA use-after-free vulnerability can occur during WebRTC connections when interacting with the DTMF timers. This results in a potentially exploitable crash,u201d according to the Security Advisory. The patches also apply to the Firefoxu00a0Extended Support Release (ESR) 52.6 browser, also updated Tuesday. The latest version of Firefox 58 Quantum (for Windows, Linux and macOS) introduces a bevy of performance enhancements, building off Firefoxu2019s original introduction of the Quantum browseru00a0in November. Part of those speed enhancements are tied to banning advertisers from collecting data on users while they browse the internet. Mozilla says ad tracking cuts browser speeds in half. u201cWhen you browse from site to site, youu2019re often followed by scripts that collect data on where youu2019ve been and what youu2019ve done. These scripts can eat up your data, slow down your internet experience and make you see ads for things you may or may not want to admit you looked for when you went down one of those u2018suggested itemsu2019 rabbit holes. We found that when Private Browsing with Tracking Protection is on, Firefox is significantly faster than Chrome, even in Incognito mode,u201d Mozilla said. To speed up Firefox 58, you can now block ad-tracking in Firefox all the time, not just in Firefox Private Browsing mode. " }n"
%%%EternalBlue2017——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3596fa6cefc42d78dc5a46" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Philips Working on Patches for 35 Flaws in Healthcare Product", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/philips-working-patches-35-flaws-healthcare-product", "Date" : "March 01, 2018", "Article" : "Philips has informed customers that itu2019s working on patches for dozens of vulnerabilities affecting the companyu2019s IntelliSpace Portal, a visualization and analysis solution designed for healthcare organizations. According to Philips, versions 7.0.x and 8.0.x of the IntelliSpace Portal are affected by issues related to insecure Windows service permissions, legacy encryption, and remote desktop access functionality. A total of 35 CVE identifiers are associated with the vulnerabilities. An advisory published by ICS-CERT describes the security holes as input validation flaws that allow remote code execution or denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, information exposure issues that allow unauthorized access to sensitive data, access control weaknesses that can be used for privilege escalation or code execution, local code execution and privilege escalation flaws, a code execution vulnerability that exists due to leftover debugging code, and multiple cryptographic issues.  While some of these vulnerabilities appear to be specific to Philipsu2019 product, many affect third-party components. For example, there are several remote code execution, information disclosure and DoS flaws related to Windows SMB, including the EternalBlue flaw exploited in the WannaCry ransomware attack. Other flaws affect the Microsoft Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) and Microsoft Office. The crypto-related weaknesses include POODLE, BEAST and other vulnerabilities disclosed in the past years, including one from 2004. u00a0 u00a0u00a0 Learn More at SecurityWeeku2019s ICS Cyber Security Conference While exploits are publicly available for many of these vulnerabilities, they donu2019t specifically target Philips products, and the vendor claims itu2019s not aware of any attacks. Philips will release patches in the coming months. The company says itu2019s also currently testing operating system updates, which cannot be installed without ensuring that they donu2019t impact the stability of the product. Until patches become available, customers have been provided a series of workarounds. In January, Philips informed customers of an authentication issue affecting its IntelliSpace Cardiovascular (ISCV) cardiac image and information management system. The company learned from a customer that when the ISCV system is used with an Electronic Medical Record (EMR) in Kiosk mode and configured with Windows authentication, users may not be properly logged out once they are done using the software. The flaw allows a malicious actor that gains access to the system after it has been used by a legitimate EMR user to log in with that useru2019s credentials and obtain or modify sensitive information. Philips said the security hole will be addressed with the release of version 3.1.0. In the meantime, users have been advised to close the browser after accessing the system. Changing the configuration so that Windows authentication is not used also addresses the problem. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597346cefc42d78dc5ade" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Oracle WebLogic Server Flaw Exploited to Deliver Crypto-Miners", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/oracle-weblogic-server-flaw-exploited-deliver-crypto-miners", "Date" : "February 16, 2018", "Article" : "Threat actors are exploiting a recently patched vulnerability in Oracle WebLogic Server to infect systems with crypto-currency mining malware, FireEye reports.u00a0 Identified as CVE-2017-10271, the vulnerability resides in the WebLogic Server Security Service (WLS Security) in Oracle WebLogic Server versions 12.2.1.2.0 and older, and was addressed by Oracle it its October 2017 Critical Patch Update (CPU). After proof-of-concept code exploiting the bug was made public in December, activity associated with the exploitation of this vulnerability increased in volume, FireEye's researchers say. Successful exploitation of the flaw on unpatched systems allows attackers to remotely execute arbitrary code.u00a0 u201cWe saw evidence of organizations located in various countries u2013 including the United States, Australia, Hong Kong, United Kingdom, India, Malaysia, and Spain, as well as those from nearly every industry vertical u2013 being impacted by this activity,u201d FireEye reported.u00a0 The crypto-currency market boomed recently, and cybercriminals have not been shy in their attempts to take advantage of the market. However, actors involved in crypto-currency mining operations donu2019t normally target specific organizations, but rather launch attacks that are opportunistic in nature.u00a0 Attackers abusing CVE-2017-10271 to infect targeted systems with crypto-miners used various tactics to achieve their purpose, the researchers discovered. Some of the incidents, for example, used PowerShell to drop the miner directly onto the victimu2019s system and leveraged ShellExecute() for execution.u00a0 In other attacks, PowerShell scripts were used to deliver the miner, instead of downloading the executable directly. In addition to downloading the miner, the script would also attempt to achieve persistence through scheduled tasks.u00a0 The script would delete the tasks created by other crypto-miners and would kill processes associated with those programs, in addition to being able to connect to mining pools with wallet key. It would also limit CPU usage to avoid suspicion.u00a0 Tactics employed in other attacks also involved the use of tools such as Mimikatz and EternalBlue for lateral movement across Windows environments.u00a0 The malware would first determine whether the system is 32-bit or 64-bit, to fetch a specific PowerShell script from the command and control (C&C) server. Next, it checks all network adapters and attempts to connect to every system in the network using extracted credentials, to run a PowerShell to drop and run the malware on the targeted system.u00a0 The malware uses WMI (Windows Management Instrumentation) for persistence and can perform a Pass-the-Hash attack using NTLM information derived from Mimikatz, to download and execute the malware on remote machines. It sends the stolen credentials to a remote server using an HTTP GET request.u00a0 If it fails moving laterally, the malware uses the PingCastle MS17-010 scanner to determine whether the target is vulnerable to EternalBlue.u00a0 In scenarios targeting Linux machines, the vulnerability would be exploited to deliver shell scripts that include functionality similar to that of PowerShell scripts. They would attempt to kill already running crypto-miners and then download and execute the malware, in addition to creating a cron job to maintain persistence.u00a0 u201cUse of cryptocurrency mining malware is a popular tactic leveraged by financially-motivated cyber criminals to make money from victims. Weu2019ve observed one threat actor mining around 1 XMR/day, demonstrating the potential profitability and reason behind the recent rise in such attacks,u201d FireEye says.u00a0 Although they might be seen as less risky when compared to ransomware operations, crypto-currency mining malware does pose a variety of risks. Systems infected with crypto-miners might experience slowed performance, but such operations could also be hiding additional malware.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35973a6cefc42d78dc5aed" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "White House Cyber Chief Provides Transparency Into Zero-Day Disclosure Process", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/white-house-cyber-chief-provides-transparency-zero-day-disclosure-process", "Date" : "November 16, 2017", "Article" : " The U.S. government Wednesday introduced greater transparency into its Vulnerabilities Equities Policy (VEP) program. This is the process by which government agencies decide whether to disclose or stockpile the cyber vulnerabilities they discover.u00a0 In a lengthy statement, White House Cybersecurity Coordinator Rob Joyce explained why not all discoveries are disclosed. That will not change; but in introducing greater transparency into the process of decision-making, he hopes "to demonstrate to the American people that the Federal Government is carefully weighing the risks and benefits as we carry out this important mission." The extent to which the government agencies use cyber vulnerabilities to further their own overseas missions became known with Edward Snowden's leaked documents. This sparked greater discussion over the morality of government collection and use of vulnerabilities without disclosing the existence of those vulnerabilities to the product vendors concerned.u00a0 Microsoft, for example, developed detailed proposals for introducing international norms of cyber behavior that would rely on no government keeping private supplies (hoarding) of undisclosed 0-day vulnerabilities; and also called for a digital Geneva Convention that would "mandate that governments report vulnerabilities to vendors rather than stockpile, sell or exploit them." This is unlikely to happen. "Our national capacity to find and hold criminals and other rogue actors accountable relies on cyber capabilities enabled by exploiting vulnerabilities in the digital infrastructure they use. Those exploits produce intelligence for attribution, evidence of crimes, enable defensive investigations, and posture us to respond to our adversaries with cyber capabilities," said Joyce in his statement. The theft and release of 'Equation Group' (generally considered to be the NSA) tools and exploits by the Shadow Brokers (generally considered to be 'Russia') brought new emphasis to the issue. These tools included the EternalBlue exploit soon used by hackers (quite probably nation-state affiliated hackers) in the worldwide WannaCry and NotPetya ransomware outbreaks. Joyce formerly served as head of the NSAu2019s Tailored Access Operations (TAO) unitu2014an offensive hacking team tasked with breaking into systems of foreign entities. The unproven implication is that if the NSA had disclosed their vulnerabilities, the worldwide disruption caused by WannaCry and NotPetya might not have happened. There is, however, little mention of the danger of theft inherent in any store of vulnerabilities in this week's VEP transparency announcement, beyond two considerations in the decision process: "If USG knowledge of this vulnerability were to be revealed, what risks could that pose for USG relationships with industry?", and "If USG knowledge of this vulnerability were to be revealed, what risks could that pose for USG international relations?" The full unclassified VEP process document (PDF) "describes the Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process for departments and agencies of the United States Government (USG) to balance equities and make determinations regarding disclosure or restriction when the USG obtains knowledge of newly discovered and not publicly known vulnerabilities in information systems and technologies." In short, it explains the process without altering the policy. Its purpose is to introduce transparency and reassure the public that the government will weigh the offensive advantages obtained against the threat of public disruption if used by third-parties, for each 0-day vulnerability it discovers. That transparency is valuable, but there remain numerous concerns. One is that the VEP continues to be an administrative exercise not enshrined in law. It can be changed at any time without public or legislative overview.  In May 2017, Senators Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), and Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and U.S. Representatives Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) and Blake Farenthold (R-Texas) introduced the 'Protecting Our Ability to Counter Hacking Act of 2017' -- the PATCH Act. Its purpose is to promote the transparency introduced this week, but make it a legal requirement rather than an administrative choice. The Patch Act appears to have stalled, with no real progress since its introduction in May. Other concerns appear in the Exceptions section of the VEP process document. For example, "The United States Government's decision to disclose or restrict vulnerability information could be subject to restrictions by partner agreements and sensitive operations." This will exclude 0-days discovered by, say, GCHQ and disclosed to the NSA under an effective non-disclosure agreement; and it could also exclude 0-days expected to be used in potential operations (such as Stuxnet). It has long been suspected that members of the Five Eyes surveillance alliance share intelligence on each other's nationals to circumvent individual laws forbidding surveillance of own subjects. If this happens in practice, a similar arrangement between each members' intelligence agencies would exclude shared vulnerabilities from the VEP process. Both exclusions will undoubtedly be used by the more offense-driven agencies (the NSA and the CIA) to both hold and keep secret their most 'valuable' exploits. Nevertheless, the purpose of declassifying the VEP process is primarily to reassure the American people that the secretive intelligence agencies do not have free rein in the vulnerabilities they keep and the vulnerabilities they use -- and to that extent it will probably succeed. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597446cefc42d78dc5b07" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Banking Trojan Uses NSA-Linked Exploit", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/banking-trojan-uses-nsa-linked-exploit", "Date" : "September 25, 2017", "Article" : "Newly observed Retefe banking Trojan samples have implemented the National Security Agency-related EternalBlue exploit, Proofpoint security researchers have discovered. Unlike previous malware attacks that exploited EternalBlue, however, the new campaign doesnu2019t abuse it to spread in an infinite loop. In fact, the exploit-carrying samples are distributed via spam emails, while the version dropped via EternalBlue lacks the exploit. EternalBlue is a NSA-linked tool that became public in April, one month after Microsoft released a patch for it. The exploit leverages a vulnerability in Windowsu2019 Server Message Block (SMB) on port 445, allowing attackers to have malicious code automatically executed on vulnerable systems. The exploit became highly popular after being abused in the massive WannaCry ransomware campaign that unfolded in May this year. Other malware, however had been abusing it for weeks. In a recent campaign targeting users in Switzerland, some of the Retefe samples Proofpoint has collected starting with September 5 revealed the use of EternalBlue for lateral movement capabilities. Retefe is a banking Trojan active since 2013, well known for its continuous focus on users in Austria, Sweden, Switzerland and Japan. The malware operates by routing traffic to and from the targeted banks through proxy servers, often hosted on the TOR network. Recently, the malware has been mostly distributed through spam email campaigns where a Microsoft Office document was attached to the messages. Leveraging social engineering, the attackers use the attachments to trick users into downloading a malicious payload, In recent campaigns, a self-extracting Zip archive containing a multiply-obfuscated JavaScript installer was downloaded. While analyzing the installer code, the security researchers have discovered that recent samples contained a new parameter designed to implement the EternalBlue exploit. The code was borrowed from a publicly available proof-of-concept posted on GitHub, but functionality to log the installation and victim configuration details was also included. Last week, the parameter was replaced with a new one that contains only the logging functions. u201cThe EternalBlue exploit downloads a PowerShell script from a remote server, which itself includes an embedded executable that installs Retefe. This installation, however, lacks the module responsible for further lateral spread via EternalBlue, thus avoiding an infinite spreading loop,u201d Proofpoint says. The security researchers also note that malware versions compatible with Mac OS have been distributed between June and August this year. u201cWhile far less widespread than other banking Trojans like Dridex or The Trick, the focus on Swiss banks provides the Retefe group with potential high-profile targets. In addition, we are observing increasingly targeted attacks from this group that, with the addition of the EternalBlue exploit, creates opportunities for effective propagation within networks once initial targets have been compromised,u201d Proofpoint notes. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597766cefc42d78dc5b8e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "NSA-Linked Hacking Tools Ported to Metasploit", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/nsa-linked-hacking-tools-ported-metasploit", "Date" : "February 06, 2018", "Article" : "Three hacking tools supposedly stolen from the National Security Agency-linked Equation Group and made public last year were recently ported to Rapid7u2019s Metasploit Framework. The three exploits u2013 EternalSynergy, EternalRomance, and EternalChampion u2013 were released publicly in April 2017 alongside the more popular EternalBlue, one month after Microsoft patched them.u00a0 The tools could previously be used only on several, older Windows releases, although EternalSynergy was modified to target recent Windows versions as well. Last year, EternalRomance was used in the global Bad Rabbit ransomware attack. All three exploits can now be used to target all Windows versions since Windows 2000, Sean Dillon, a security researcher with RiskSense who goes by the online handle of @zerosum0x0, reveals. The researcher modified the exploits and merged them into the open-source Metasploit Framework.u00a0 The three tools target two vulnerabilities in Microsoftu2019s platform, namely CVE-2017-0146, a race condition with Transaction requests exploited by EternalChampion and EternalSynergy, and CVE-2017-0143, a type confusion between WriteAndX and Transaction requests exploited by EternalRomance and EternalSynergy.u00a0 The researcher explains that the module does not use kernel shellcode to stage Meterpreter, meaning that those interested in leveraging it would need to use evasion for their payloads. However, the tool can be used to run any command as System or to stage Meterpreter. u201cThis module is highly reliable and preferred over EternalBlue where a Named Pipe is accessible for anonymous logins (generally, everything pre-Vista, and relatively common for domain computers in the wild),u201d the researcher says.u00a0 The module does not attempt shellcode execution, but overwrites the SMB connection session structures instead, thus achieving Admin/SYSTEM session.u00a0 u201cThe MSF module is leaner (stripped down packet count/padding), checks extra named pipes, sprinkles randomness where possible, and has Metasploit's psexec DCERPC implementation bolted onto it. For the last reason, Rex is used and not RubySMB,u201d the researcher explains.u00a0 The exploits can be used on both 32-bit and 64-bit architectures and target all platform iterations from Windows 2000 to Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016.u00a0 The module is available on GitHub. As Dillon points out, it has been created for academic research and the development of defenses, not to be used in attacks, except where explicitly authorized.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597896cefc42d78dc5bc0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "One Year After WannaCry Outbreak, EternalBlue Exploit Still a Threat", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/one-year-after-wannacry-outbreak-eternalblue-exploit-still-threat", "Date" : "May 11, 2018", "Article" : "One year after the WannaCry ransomware outbreak, the NSA-linked exploit used for propagation is still threatening unpatched and unprotected systems, security researchers say. The WannaCry infection started on May 12, 2017, disrupting Spanish businesses and dozens of hospitals in the U.K. The malware hit Windows 7 the most and was estimated to have infected nearly half a million computers and other types of devices within 10 days.  The largest number of machines was hit in the first hours of the outbreak, before a security researcher discovered a kill-switch and slowed the spreading to a near stop.  u201cWannaCry served as a cybersecurity wake-up call for many organizations that were falling behind in their routine IT responsibilities,u201d Ken Spinner, VP of Field Engineering, Varonis, told SecurityWeek in an emailed comment. u201cWhile WannaCry tore through organizations like the NHS, companies that kept their systems updated with the latest patches, performed backups and took proactive security measures emerged unscathed,u201d Spinner continued.  WannaCry was able to spread fast because it abused an exploit supposedly stolen from the National Security Agency-linked Equation Group. Called EternalBlue, the exploit was made public in April 2017, one month after Microsoft released a patch for it.  EternalBlue is targeting a vulnerability in Windowsu2019 Server Message Block (SMB) on port 445, but only older operating system versions (mainly Windows XP and Windows 7) are impacted. Although it brought the exploit to the spotlight, WannaCry wasnu2019t the first malware to abuse it. During the weeks prior to the outbreak, EternalBlue was leveraged by a crypto-currency mining botnet and a backdoor. A ransomware family called UIWIX was also observed abusing it around the same period.  Despite Microsoft releasing a couple of patches for the security flaw targeted by EternalBlue, including an emergency patch for unsupported systems, tens of thousands of systems continued to be vulnerable last summer.  WannaCry, which was supposedly the work of North Korean actors, managed to wreak havoc a year ago, but it died fast. EternalBlue, on the other hand, remained strong, and was also abused in the global NotPetya attack last year.  In fact, security researchers say that the NSA-linked exploit is currently more popular among cybercriminals than it was a year ago.  Overall, more than 2 million users were observed being hit via the exploit from May 2017 to May 2018, Moscow-based security firm Kaspersky Lab told SecurityWeek.  The number of unique users hit by EternalBlue was 10 times higher in April 2018 compared to May 2017, with an average of more than 240,000 users being attacked via this exploit every month, the security firm also said.  u201cThe fact that hackers keep targeting users using the EternalBlue exploit in their attacks means that many systems remain unpatched, which could lead to some dangerous consequences. Itu2019s still highly important for organizations to take a close look at the security of their networks. Their first priority should be to install all necessary patches on time, in order to avoid losses in the future,u201d said Anton Ivanov, lead malware analyst, Kaspersky Lab. According to ESET, not only did the popularity of EternalBlue increase significantly over the past months, but a u201crecent spike even surpassed the greatest peaks from 2017.u201d Following a calmer period after the WannaCry attack, when only hundreds of detections were observed daily, the use of EternalBlue started picking up pace in September last year and reached new heights in mid-April 2018.  A Satan ransomware campaign observed last month likely contributed to the latest spike, but the exploit might have been used in other malicious activities as well, the researchers say.  u201cThis exploit and all the attacks it has enabled so far highlight the importance of timely patching as well as the need for a reliable and multi-layered security solution that can block the underlying malicious tool,u201d ESET points out.  The main reason EternalBlueu2019s usage is spiking is the existence of millions of vulnerable devices that continue to be exposed to the Internet, as Mounir Hahad, head of Juniper Threat Labs at Juniper Networks, told SecurityWeek.  u201cImmediately after the WannaCry epidemic last year, most security researchers advised people to disable SMBv1 entirely and make sure SMBv2 was not exposed to the internet. One year later and we are still seeing about 2.3M devices with SMBv1 exposed to the internet, with the majority of these vulnerable machines in the UAE, US, Russia, Taiwan and Japan,u201d Hahad said.u00a0 "The same mitigation techniques that have been recommended over and over again are still relevant and effective to minimize the impacts of a ransomware attack, but it comes down to actually implementing them,u201d Hahad continued.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35979e6cefc42d78dc5bf5" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "One-Third of Industrial Networks Connected to Internet: Study", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/one-third-industrial-networks-connected-internet-study", "Date" : "October 24, 2017", "Article" : "Many industrial and critical infrastructure systems are connected to the Internet, and the operational technology (OT) networks of some organizations have already been compromised, according to a new study from industrial security firm CyberX. What makes the CyberX study interesting is the fact that itu2019s not based on a survey. Instead, the company used data obtained after passively monitoring traffic from 375 OT networks over the past 18 months. The organizations whose networks have been analyzed are from a variety of sectors u2013 including manufacturing, energy and utilities, oil and gas, and pharmaceuticals and chemicals u2013 in the United States, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Organizations have often downplayed the risks associated with the presence of vulnerable industrial control systems (ICS) on their networks, claiming that devices are isolated, or air-gapped, and cannot be accessed remotely from the Internet. However, CyberXu2019s study revealed that roughly one-third of organizations had industrial networks connected to the public Web. These systems are often accessible remotely for convenience, including for remote management, performing software updates, and even web browsing and email from the OT network. More than 80% of industrial sites are running a remote management protocol such as RDP, VNC or SSH, allowing attackers on the OT network to remotely access and control other devices on the network via standard administration tools. Misconfigured wireless access points (WAPs) can also be leveraged as an attack vector, and one in five of the analyzed companies had at least one WAP. CyberX also found that 76% of analyzed industrial sites have machines running obsolete versions of Windows, such as Windows 2000 and Windows XP, on their OT networks. Both Windows devices and industrial systems such as programmable logic controllers (PLCs) had vulnerabilities in 28% of cases. Furthermore, many organizations havenu2019t made sure that strong authentication mechanisms are in place. In nearly 60% of cases, CyberX has seen plaintext passwords crossing the network, allowing man-in-the-middle (MitM) attackers to obtain valuable information. The analysis shows that Modbus is the most widely used industrial protocol (58%), followed by Ethernet IP (28%), Siemensu2019 S7, OPC, OSIsoft PI and MMS. Researchers also found that almost half of industrial sites did not have even basic antivirus protection on Windows endpoints. u201cWeu2019ve heard from customers that adding AV software to endpoints such as HMI workstations can sometimes void the warranty provided by their OT vendors. Vendors are concerned that the overhead of AV scanning software will impact the performance or reliability of their workstations,u201d CyberX said in its report. u201cNevertheless, lack of AV protection increases the risk of having known malware on these systems u2014 such as Conficker, WannaCry, and NotPetya u2014 without even knowing about it.u201d As a matter of fact, CyberX did see malware in 10% of the analyzed OT networks. The security firm has observed Conficker infections, which is one of the most widespread pieces of malware and it has been known to infect even critical infrastructure organizations. CyberX told SecurityWeek that it also noticed some threats that exhibited behavior consistent with the EternalBlue exploit, which has been used by both the WannaCry ransomware and the NotPetya wiper. The data shows little difference between the security scores of various industries u2013 there is only a +/- 5% variation from the median score of 61% across the analyzed sectors.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597dc6cefc42d78dc5c95" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Patching Against the Next WannaCry Vulnerability (CVE-2017-8620)", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/patching-against-next-wannacry-vulnerability-cve-2017-8620", "Date" : "August 18, 2017", "Article" : "This month's Microsoft patch updates include one particular vulnerability that is raising concerns: CVE-2017-8620, which affects all versions of Windows from 7 onwards. Microsoft explained, "in an enterprise scenario, a remote unauthenticated attacker could remotely trigger the vulnerability through an SMB connection and then take control of a target computer." In short, this is a wormable bug affecting all supported versions of Windows. The parallels with the WannaCry and NotPetya vulnerabilities are clear -- indeed, Check Point described CVE-2017-8620 as 'The Next WannaCry Vulnerability'. All that is currently missing is full disclosure of the vulnerability and a usable exploit (WannaCry and NotPetya exploited the leaked NSA exploit known as EternalBlue). Noticeably, SANS describes this vulnerability as 'more likely' to be both disclosed and exploited in the future. Once this happens, the situation could precisely parallel WannaCry/NotPetya. Microsoft has done what it can (or as much as it is willing to do); it has patched the vulnerability. The earlier WannaCry vulnerability had also been patched; but WannaCry (and NotPetya) still happened (and the effects continue to be felt). "The importance of patching systems cannot be underestimated," says David Kennerley, director of threat research at Webroot. "There will always be zero-day vulnerabilities, but it's worth noting that the vast majority of exploit attacks seen in the wild involve cybercriminals targeting known vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities have already been fixed by the vendor, but the fix has not been deployed and installed by the end user. With any vulnerability that can result in remote code execution, there is always concern until users deploy and install patches. There is without doubt a window of opportunity for cybercriminals to take advantage." One concern for the CVE-2017-8620 vulnerability is that it could be adopted by nation-state actors. Absolute attribution of cyberattacks is difficult; but much current thinking is that the WannaCry attack was a somewhat botched ransomware attack (possibly originating from North Korea). The NotPetya ransomware attack is thought to be a disguised wiper attack primarily aimed at the Ukraine, and possibly by Russian 'patriots'. Extrapolating this progress, one possible application of CVE-2017-8620 in the future could be its use by an adversarial nation-state employing it as a rapidly spreading worm wiper cyberweapon. State actors would certainly have the resources to uncover the vulnerability and develop an exploit. The current concern is that since many users did not patch against WannaCry/NotPetya, they might not patch CVE-2017-8620 before it is exploited. The question becomes, why is industry apparently lax in its patch procedures? This is a complex issue with no easy answer. "Patching will break stuff," F-Secure security advisor Sean Sullivan explains. "And so you can't just roll out patches into a live production environment without testing. It's a matter of time and resources. There's no escaping the need to test." This view is echoed by Wendy Nather, principal security strategist at Duo Security. The 'production' environments in healthcare are a good example. "Because patient safety is paramount," she said, "healthcare systems cannot be updated if doing so will threaten their availability. Even if the software is patched, it requires a new round of safety certifications that take months." It is noticeable that healthcare -- and especially the UK's National Health Service -- was badly affected by the WannaCry outbreak.u00a0 Production environments are not the only problem area for IT departments. "Any system with external, highly entangled dependencies will take longer to update," says Nather. Established international organizations that have perhaps acquired foreign companies in different legal jurisdictions could fall into this category. It could take years, she suggested, "as integration testing, certifications, regulatory alignment in multiple countries, and staged deployment must all be carefully scheduled." Embedded systems are likely to prove an increasing problem for patching as the IoT expands; both for embedded operating systems and proprietary software. Martin Zinaich, information security officer with the City of Tampa, gives an example. "Recently I was tracking down WannaCry attack traffic coming loud and strong from an IP address that I soon associated to an HP Scanner. Yes, a scanner -- but a scanner that utilizes Windows POS. I now have to worry about large format scanners. Tomorrow it will be light bulbs, door locks and the candy machine."u00a0 To add insult to injury, the scanner's product data sheet specifically states, "Closed systems with very low risk of being infected by a virus, so no antivirus is required." Vulnerabilities in IoT devices are now considered such a problem that US lawmakers have introduced a bill that will require vendors selling IoT devices to the US government to ensure that the devices are patchable. While there are genuine reasons for some companies to delay patching -- David Harley, senior research fellow at ESET calls it "a balance between risking difficulties caused by a problematic patch, and risking issues caused by unpatched vulnerabilities" -- there are still cases where organizations don't see patching as a priority. "And that, he adds, "has become more dangerous than ever in recent years." What becomes clear is that there are likely to be many unpatched systems around the world left vulnerable by the time an exploit for CVE-2017-8620 becomes available. Is Check Point correct in saying this could be the next WannaCry? Replies are guarded. "It might be a bit hyperbolic," comments Sullivan, "but isn't wrong. It may be too soon to worry about the 'next' attack (as they are very often different than the last) but it's not too soon to be learning lessons from the WannaCry incident." It's not inevitable that it will be the next WannaCry, adds Harley: "but it's not impossible." This just leaves the final question: if patching CVE-2017-8620 is not possible, how should companies protect themselves. The first requirement is that anti-virus defenses should be kept up to date. It is possible, but not immediately verifiable, that Microsoft will privately disclose the vulnerability to the anti-virus industry as part of the long-running practice of information-sharing between the defenders. "I wouldn't be surprised to see anti-malware products include detection of the vulnerability or potential exploits," comments Harley. Defense in depth specifically aimed at preventing SMB worms will also help. F-Secure's Jarno Niemela pointed out during the WannaCry outbreak that better firewall rules would have done much to mitigate the damage that was done. "Managing risk is not just about patching vulnerabilities," says Sullivan. Finally, if patching is planned but delayed, Microsoft's recommended temporary mitigation against CVE-2017-8620 should be deployed: disable the WSearch facility within Windows.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597e56cefc42d78dc5cab" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Leaked Exploits Fueled Millions of Attacks in Q2: Kaspersky", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/leaked-exploits-fueled-millions-attacks-q2-kaspersky", "Date" : "August 17, 2017", "Article" : "The public availability of new exploit packages has fueled millions of new attacks on popular applications during the second quarter of 2017, a recent report from Kaspersky Lab reveals. The Moscow-based security company said that it blocked more than five million attacks involving in-the-wild exploits during the three-month period, but the actual number of incidents should be significantly higher. Highly effective as they donu2019t usually require user interaction, attacks leveraging exploits can result in malicious code being delivered to the targeted machines without the user suspecting anything. According to Kasperskyu2019s IT threat evolution Q2 2017 report, the publication by the Shadow Brokers hacker group of several tools and exploits supposedly associated with the National Security Agency had grave consequences during the quarter. Included in the leak were exploits such as EternalBlue and EternalRomance, which fueled a large wave of malicious attacks. Despite the fact that Microsoft had patched the vulnerabilities exploited by these tools one month before they were made public, u201cin the second quarter of 2017 only Kaspersky Lab blocked more over five million attempted attacks involving network exploits from the archive. And the average number of attacks per day was constantly growing: 82% of all attacks were detected in the last 30 days,u201d the security company says. The figure is not surprising, considering that EternalBlue was used in a massive, global WannaCry ransomware attack in May. In June, the same exploit was used for lateral movement in an attack involving the NotPetya wiper, which resulted in hundreds of millions in losses. The exploit was employed in various other malware attacks as well. One other exploit that fueled a large number of attacks was leveraging the CVE-2017-0199 vulnerability in Microsoft Office. Initially a zero-day abused by threat actors, Microsoft addressed the bug in early April, but cybercriminals discovered new ways to leverage it: through the use of PowerPoint Slide Shows. Despite the fix, the number of attacked users peaked at 1.5 million in April, Kaspersky says. The security company says it detected and repelled 342,566,061 malicious attacks from online resources located in 191 countries during Q2, and that it also identified 33,006,783 unique malicious URLs. In Q1, the company detected 479,528,279 malicious attacks. Kaspersky also detected attempted infections with financial malware on 224,675 user computers (down from 288,000 during the previous three months), and blocked crypto-ransomware attacks on 246,675 unique computers (up from 240,799 in Q1). The security firm detected 185,801,835 unique malicious and potentially unwanted objects in Q2 (up from 174,989,956 the previous quarter). In terms of banking malware attacks, Germany emerged as the most affected country in Q2 (these incidents include banking Trojans and ATM and POS-malware). Zbot, Nymaim, and Emotet were the top 3 banking malware families in the timeframe. WannaCry, Locky, and Cerber were the most spread cryptor families. Mobile malware was also active in the timeframe. The security firm discovered a Trojan called Dvmap being distributed via Google Play, and also observed attackers attempting to upload new apps containing the malicious Ztorg module to the storefront. The Svpeng banking Trojan remained the most popular mobile threat. Overall, Kaspersky detected 1,319,148 malicious installation packages during Q2, and reveals that adware registered the biggest growth during the timeframe. Trojan-SMS malware experienced the second-highest growth rate, while spyware registered the biggest decline. Iran was the top country attacked by mobile malware, followed by China, while the United States emerged as the most attacked by mobile ransomware. u201cThe threat landscape of Q2 provides yet another reminder that a lack of vigilance is one of the most significant cyber dangers. While vendors patch vulnerabilities on a regular basis, many users donu2019t pay attention to this, which results in massive-scale attacks once the vulnerabilities are exposed to the broad cybercriminal community,u201d Alexander Liskin, security expert at Kaspersky Lab, said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598236cefc42d78dc5d42" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Shadow Brokers Want $20,000 for Monthly Leaks", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/shadow-brokers-want-20000-monthly-leaks", "Date" : "May 30, 2017", "Article" : "The Shadow Brokers have provided more details on the monthly subscription service announced two weeks ago. Those interested in obtaining exploits and other information from the group will have to pay a monthly fee of roughly $20,000. The Shadow Brokers announced the u201cmonthly dump serviceu201d following the WannaCry ransomware attacks, which leveraged an exploit leaked by the group. The exploit in question, dubbed EternalBlue, was one of the many files allegedly stolen from the NSA-linked actor known as the Equation Group. The hackers have insisted that their main goal is to make money, and since their previous attempts have had little success, they have now decided to offer the remaining Equation Group files for a monthly fee. While some experts believe the most important files may have already been made public, the group claims itu2019s still in possession of a lot of data, including exploits for Windows 10, web browsers, routers and smartphones, SWIFT network data, and information on nuclear and missile programs in Russia, China, Iran and North Korea. The first monthly dump will be made available sometime between July 1 and July 17. The hackers claim they have yet to decide on what to leak, but it will be u201csomething of value to someone.u201d Individuals and organizations that want to receive the files will have to pay 100 units of Zcash, a digital currency advertised as u201cpermissionless cryptocurrency that can fully protect the privacy of transactions using zero-knowledge cryptography.u201d The 100 Zcash, currently worth roughly $20,000, must be sent to a specified address during the month of June along with an email address to which the files will be delivered. The group said the files will be sent out as a u201cmass email,u201d which indicates that all subscribers will receive the same files. The Shadow Brokers said they realize that $20,000 is not an amount anyone can pay, and pointed out that the monthly dump service is mainly for security companies, governments, OEMs, hackers and u201chigh rollers.u201d The hackers noted that there are also some risks associated with Zcash, which they canu2019t guarantee is safe and reliable. The Shadow Brokers had previously attempted to monetize the Equation Group exploits through auctions, crowdfunding campaigns, and direct sale, but none of the methods was as successful as the group had hoped. Their latest attempt could be more successful considering that the monthly subscription fee is significantly smaller compared to the thousands of bitcoins they previously demanded. Matthew Hickey, co-founder of security firm Hacker House, has proposed launching a Kickstarter campaign to raise the money. Once the exploits are obtained, they would be analyzed and disclosed responsibly to affected vendors. However, not everyone agrees with the idea. Also, I think Equation Group, whoever they may be, should responsibility disclose all the stolen exploits. They're burned now, being sold. u2014 Kevin Beaumont (@GossiTheDog) May 30, 2017    To date, the Shadow Brokers have managed to earn only 10.5 bitcoins, which is currently worth roughly $24,000. F-Secureu2019s Mikko Hypponen noticed recently that the hackers had emptied their original Bitcoin wallet and started distributing the money to tens of other addresses. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598306cefc42d78dc5d5f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Researchers Release Patch for NSA-linked "EsteemAudit" Exploit", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/researchers-release-patch-nsa-linked-esteemaudit-exploit", "Date" : "May 26, 2017", "Article" : "Security researchers at enSilo have released a patch to keep vulnerable systems protected from a recently released Windows exploit allegedly used by the National Security Agency (NSA)-linked Equation Group. Dubbed EsteemAudit, this exploit targets a remote desktop protocol (RDP) bug and can be abused to move laterally within a compromised organizationu2019s network, as well as to infect victims with ransomware or backdoors, or to exfiltrate sensitive information. The exploit might not be as popular as the EternalBlue exploit, which fueled large infections such as WannaCry or Adylkuzz, but it could prove as devastating. EsteemAudit was made public last month when the hacking group known as the Shadow Brokers decided to release a new set of exploits and tools allegedly stolen from the NSA-linked Equation Group last year. Soon after, Microsoft said the vulnerabilities had been patched in March. The hackers initially put the tools up for auction, but decided to release some of them for free after failing to attract buyers. Last week, the Shadow Brokers announced plans to launch a subscription service and share more exploits to membersu00a0for a monthly fee. Unlike EternalBlue, which affects a variety of Windows versions, EsteemAudit only works on Windows XP and Windows Server 2003, which supposedly limits its overall impact. However, this also means that an official patch is unlikely to arrive from Microsoft, as it no longer offers support for these platform iterations. Because of that, enSilo decided to release a persistent patch for these systems and keep users safe from attacks possibly leveraging the exploit. The decision was fueled by the fact that a large number of machines continue to use Windows XP and Server 2003, the researchers say. u201cUpon login for each session, Windows will create a new instance of winlogon. The patch will be loaded into winlogon.exe (only if it is an RDP session) to perform in memory patching (hotpatching) of EsteemAudit. Any attempt to use EsteemAudit to infect the patched machine will inevitably fail,u201d enSilo explains. Installing this patch, however, doesnu2019t render Windows XP or Server 2003 systems fully secure, as hundreds of other vulnerabilities impacting them still exist and will never be patched. This patch resolves only the vulnerability exploited by EsteemAudit and works on both x86 and x64 platform versions. The patch is available for download on enSilou2019s website and is installed by an installation program after accepting the terms of usage. Uninstallation is supported by signaling an event (which will remove the patch in memory) and unregistering the patch from loading into subsequent RDP sessions. u201cThe patch for Windows XP and Server 2003 supports silent installation and does not require a reboot, which helps users avoid the required downtime typically associated with patch installations. Upon patching, any attempt to use an EsteemAudit exploit to infect a patched machine will inevitably fail,u201d the researchers say. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35984d6cefc42d78dc5da0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "EternalRocks Network Worm Leverages 7 NSA Hacking Tools", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/eternalrocks-network-worm-leverages-7-nsa-hacking-tools", "Date" : "May 22, 2017", "Article" : "EternalRocks Worm Uses NSA Exploits to Compromise Systems and Install DoublePulsar Backdoor A recently discovered network worm leverages a total of seven hacking tools stolen from the National Security Agency (NSA)-linked Equation Group. Dubbed EternalRocks and capable of self-replication, the threat emerged over the past couple of weeks, with the most recent known sample dated May 3. The malware was discovered by security researcher Miroslav Stampar, who also found that the tool was initially called MicroBotMassiveNet. The seven NSA hacking tools included in the network worm include the EternalBlue, EternalChampion, EternalRomance, and EternalSynergy exploits, along with the DoublePulsar backdoor and the Architouch, and Smbtouch SMB reconnaissance tools. The exploits were made public in April by the hacker group going by the name of Shadow Brokers and are said to have been stolen from the NSA-linked threat actor Equation Group last year. Within days after the tools were released, Microsoft said that it had already patched the vulnerabilities targeted by the exploits with its March 2017 security updates. However, because not all vulnerable devices have been patched, these exploits continue to be effective, and the recent WannaCry ransomware outbreak is the best example of that. The WannaCry malware abused the EternalBlue exploit for distribution, and other threats did the same, including the UIWIX ransomware, Adylkuzz botnet, and a stealth Remote Access Trojan. The EternalRocks worm is yet another malicious program attempting to cash in on the release of these exploits. Its purpose seems pretty straightforward: it compromises systems to install the DoublePulsar backdoor on them. The worm uses a two-stage infection process to deliver its payload, but appears to be more of a research project at the moment than an actual malicious tool. u201cFirst stage malware UpdateInstaller.exe (got through remote exploitation with second stage malware) downloads necessary .NET components (for later stages) TaskScheduler and SharpZLib from Internet, while dropping svchost.exe and taskhost.exe. Component svchost.exe is used for downloading, unpacking and running Tor from archive.torproject.org along with C&C (command and control) communication requesting further instructions,u201d Stampar notes. The second-stage payload is downloaded only after a 24-hour period has passed, and is hidden as the taskhost.exe process. The payload drops the exploit pack shadowbrokers.zip, unpacks contained directories payloads/, configs/ and bins/, and then starts a random scan of opened 445 (SMB) ports on the Internet. EternalRocks also runs contained exploits (inside directory bins/) and pushes the first stage malware through payloads (inside directory payloads/). Moreover, the running Tor process continues to wait for further instructions from the C&C. In an emailed comment, Michael Patterson, CEO of Plixer, told SecurityWeek that EternalRocks, currently the u201cfirst known malware incorporating all seven of the NSA hacking tools,u201d is clearly a more stealthy tool, given its delayed Tor communication and that administrators looking to keep their systems safe from this threat might have already lost the battle with it. u201cOnce a device is infected, applying a subsequent patch does not remove the malware. The most effective way for security teams to monitor for any infected devices is to leverage network traffic analytics to look for any historical Tor connections leaving the organization,u201d Patterson said. u201cThe race to detect and stop all malware was lost years ago. Organizations must constantly monitor their environments for anomalous behaviors, maintain a historical forensic database, and have a well-defined storage backup and recovery process for all critical data,u201d he concluded. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598506cefc42d78dc5da9" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Windows 7 Most Hit by WannaCry Ransomware", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/windows-7-most-hit-wannacry-ransomware", "Date" : "May 22, 2017", "Article" : "Most of the computers affected by the WannaCry ransomware outbreak were running Windows 7, security researchers have revealed. Initially, the malware was believed to have hit mostly computers running Windows XP, mainly because of its attack vector u2013 exploiting a Server Message Block (SMB) version 1 vulnerability. According to a tweet from Kaspersky Labu2019s director of Global Research and Analysis Team Costin Raiu, however, the number of Windows XP infections was insignificant. Windows 7 x64 machines were hit the most, accounting for 60.35% of infections, with Windows 7 x86 coming in second, at 31.72%, the researcher also revealed. These two Windows 7 versions, along with Windows 7 Home x64 and x86 editions, accounted for around 98% of all WannaCry infections, it seems. #WannaCry infection distribution by the Windows version. Worst hit - Windows 7 x64. The Windows XP count is insignificant. pic.twitter.com/5GhORWPQij u2014 Costin Raiu (@craiu) May 19, 2017   WannaCry made a name for itself after researchers discovered it had a worm component abusing the NSA-linked EternalBlue and DoublePulsar exploits to automatically spread to other vulnerable machines. The exploit was said to target all Windows versions from XP to 8.1 (Windows Server 2003 & 2008 as well), but the worm is now said to be reliable only when hitting Windows 7. Actual infection numbers arenu2019t out yet, but researchers estimate that around 420,000 machines have been hit by the ransomware to date. Because a researcher registered a kill-switch domain soon after the outbreak started (upon infection, the malware would beacon to a hardcoded domain and terminate its process when receiving a response), only some of these machines ended up infected with WannaCry. Microsoft resolved the targeted SMB vulnerability in March and also released an emergency patch for unsupported platform versions on May 13, only one day after the ransomware outbreak started. In the aftermath of WannaCry, however, researchers discovered that both a crypto-currency mining botnet and a backdoor had been abusing the exploit for weeks. The exploit is also used by a ransomware family called UIWIX. WannaCry hasnu2019t infected only PCs, but other types of machines as well, including medical devices. In fact, Britainu2019s National Health Service (NHS) was among the first organizations to have been hit by the malware. Soon after the initial wave of infections, security researchers started observing new WannaCry variations, including some that didnu2019t use a kill-switch domain. Whatu2019s more, Cyphort researchers reported last week that a new ransomware variant was using a kill-switch domain that couldnu2019t be registered. The variant uses a domain in the .test Top Level Domain, which cannot be registered, as it is reserved by the IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) for testing purposes only, Cyphort says. Because the sample has been submitted to VirusTotal from 4 different countries (Germany, Australia, Denmark and South Korea), itu2019s unlikely that it is a test. u201cIt seems that the cyber criminals found a smarter way to evade sandbox detection by checking on a site that researchers cannot sinkhole. This technique allows the malware to spread again unchallenged. It is crucial that people patch Windows machines as soon as possible to close the SMB vulnerability and stop the spread of this ransomware. In the meantime, make sure you have a good backup of your important files,u201d Cyphort says. In the meantime, security researchers are working on tools that can help WannaCry victims recover their files without paying the ransom. One of them is Wannakey, designed to extract key material from infected Windows XP PCs. However, it requires a second tool to decrypt files. Building on Wannakey and already tested by Europol, a tool called wanakiwi appears more suited for the file decryption/restoration operation. One thing that both tools require, however, is that the WannaCry-infected computers havenu2019t been rebooted after the encryption took place. Already confirmed to work on Windows XP, 7, and Server 2003 (x86), wanakiwi might also work on Vista and Server 2008 and 2008 R2. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598526cefc42d78dc5dac" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "EternalSynergy-Based Exploit Targets Recent Windows Versions", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/eternalsynergy-based-exploit-targets-recent-windows-versions", "Date" : "July 18, 2017", "Article" : "A security researcher has devised an EternalSynergy-based exploit that can compromise versions of Windows newer than Windows 8. EternalSynergy is one of several exploitsu00a0allegedlyu00a0stolen by the hacker group calling themselves the Shadow Brokers from the National Security Agency (NSA)-linked Equation Group. The exploit was made public in April along with several other hacking tools, one month after Microsoft released patches for them. In May, a security researcher included EternalSynergy and six other NSA-linked hacking tools (EternalBlue, EternalChampion, EternalRomance, DoublePulsar, Architouch, and Smbtouch) in a network worm called EternalRocks. The tool was pulled weeks later to prevent abuse. Security researcher Worawit Wang has now made public an EternalSynergy-derived exploit that also leverages EternalRomance and can be used on a wider range of Windows versions. Available on both GitHub and ExploitDB, the tool targets 64-bit versions of Windows 2016, Windows 2012 R2, Windows 8.1, Windows 2008 R2 SP1, and Windows 7 SP1, as well as the 32-bit versions of Windows 8.1 and Windows 7 SP1. Security researcher Sheila A. Berta, who is part of Telefonica's Eleven Paths security unit, has published a paper (PDF) on how to exploit Wangu2019s tool to get a Meterpreter session on Windows Server 2016. EternalSynergy is based on the CVE-2017-0143 vulnerability, which u201cstems from not taking the command type of an SMB message into account when determining if the message is part of a transaction,u201d Microsoft reveals. u201cIn other words, as long as the SMB header UID, PID, TID and OtherInfo fields match the corresponding transaction fields, the message would be considered to be part of that transaction.u201d According to Microsoft, EternalSynergy should not work on Windows iterations newer than Windows 8, due to kernel security improvements such as Hypervisor-enforced Code Integrity (HVCI), which prevents unsigned kernel pages from being executed, and Control Flow Guard (CFG), designed to prevent invalid indirect function calls. The exploit is expected to crash on unsupported operating system releases, but Wang managed to create a stable tool that targets Windows XP and newer versions, except Windows 10. Given a patch is already available from Microsoft, impacted users should consider applying it as soon as possible. EternalSynergy is only one of the NSA-linked exploits to have caught researchersu2019 attention over the past several months. EternalBlue might be the most discussed such tool, after it has been abused in global attacks by ransomware such as WannaCry, the UIWIX ransomware, Adylkuzz botnet, and a stealth Remote Access Trojan. Last monthu2019s destructive NotPetya wiper also used EternalBlue to spread within compromised networks, along with the EternalRomance exploit and various other tools.u00a0  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598586cefc42d78dc5db9" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Fileless Ransomware Spreads via EternalBlue Exploit", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/fileless-ransomware-spreads-eternalblue-exploit", "Date" : "May 19, 2017", "Article" : "A newly discovered ransomware family was found to be using the NSA-linked EternalBlue exploit for distribution and is capable of fileless infection, researchers have discovered. Dubbed UIWIX, the malware was initially spotted on Monday, when theu00a0WannaCry outbreaku00a0was in the spotlight. The threat spreads by exploitingu00a0the same vulnerability in Windows SMBv1 and SMBv2 that WannaCry does.  Unlike WannaCry, UIWIX is executed in memory after exploiting EternalBlue, with no files or components being written to disk. This u201cgreatly reduces its footprint and in turn makes detection trickier,u201d Trend Micro explains. Furthermore, the security researchers say this ransomware family is also stealthier, containing code that allows it to terminate itself if a virtual machine (VM) or sandbox is detected. UIWIX also contains code that gathers the infected systemu2019s browser login, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), email, and messenger credentials. Unlike WannaCry, UIWIX doesnu2019t use autostart and persistence mechanisms, is distributed in the form of a Dynamic-link Library (DLL). Interestingly, the malware terminates itself if the compromised computer is located in Russia, Kazakhstan, and Belarus, and uses mini-tor.dll to connect to an .onion site. UIWIX doesnu2019t have the worm spreading capabilities either, doesnu2019t include a kill-switch, and uses a different Bitcoin address for each victim it infects. When accessed, a URL in the ransom note ask for a u201cpersonal codeu201d that is included in the ransom note and prompts the user to sign up for a Bitcoin wallet if they donu2019t have one. u201cItu2019s not a surprise that WannaCryu2019s massive impact turned the attention of other cybercriminals into using the same attack surface vulnerable systems and networks are exposed to,u201d Trend Micro notes. Before WannaCry and UIWIX, however, the EternalBlue exploit was leveraged by the Adylkuzz botnet, which abuses infected systems to mine for the cryptocurrency Monero. Already ported to Metasploit, EternalBlue is one of the exploits released by the hacker group known as The Shadow Brokers after allegedly stealing it from the National Security Agengy-linked Equation Group. Microsoft patched the targeted vulnerability before the exploitu2019s public release, and also issued an emergency patch for older platform versions. u201cUIWIX, like many other threats that exploit security gaps, is a lesson on the real-life significance of patching. Enterprises must balance how it sustains the efficiency of [their] business operations while also safeguarding them. IT/system administrators and information security professionals, their sentry, should enforce strong baselines that can mitigate attacks that threaten the integrity and security of their systems and networks,u201d Trend Micro concludes. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598626cefc42d78dc5dd2" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "PATCH Act: A New Bill Designed to Prevent Occurrences Like WannaCrypt", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/patch-act-new-bill-designed-prevent-occurrences-wannacrypt", "Date" : "May 18, 2017", "Article" : "Following the worldwide WannaCrypt ransomware attack that leveraged the EternalBlue exploit developed by and stolen from the NSA, Microsoft's chief legal officer called for governments to stop stockpiling 0-day exploits. His arguments are morally appealing but politically difficult. Now, however, he has partial support from a bi-partisan group of lawmakers: Senators Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), and Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and U.S. Representatives Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) and Blake Farenthold (R-Texas). Schatz announced yesterday that they had introduced the 'Protecting Our Ability to Counter Hacking Act of 2017' -- the PATCH Act. Its purpose is to establish a Vulnerability Equities Review Board with permanent members including the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI, the Director of National Intelligence, the Director of the CIA, the Director of the NSA, and the Secretary of Commerce -- or in each case the designee thereof. Its effect, however, will be to seek a compromise between the moral requirement for the government to disclose vulnerabilities (Microsoft's Digital Geneva Convention), and the government's political expediency in stockpiling vulnerabilities for national security and deterrence purposes. In a statement issued yesterday, Schatz wrote, "Striking the balance between U.S. national security and general cybersecurity is critical, but it's not easy. This bill strikes that balance. Codifying a framework for the relevant agencies to review and disclose vulnerabilities will improve cybersecurity and transparency to the benefit of the public while also ensuring that the federal government has the tools it needs to protect national security." The bill does not go so far as to mandate the disclosure of all government 0-day exploits to relevant vendors for patching, but instead requires the Vulnerability Equities Review Board to develop a consistent and transparent process for decision-making. It will create new oversight mechanisms to improve transparency and accountability, while enhancing public trust in the process. It further requires that "The head of each Federal agency shall, upon obtaining information about a vulnerability that is not publicly known, subject such information to the process established." In this way, the Vulnerability Equities Review Board not only has oversight of all 0-day vulnerabilities held by the government agencies, it also maintains the controls "relating to whether, when, how, to whom, and to what degree information about a vulnerability that is not publicly known should be shared or released by the Federal Government to a non-Federal entity." That is, whether the public interest requires the vendor be able to patch the vulnerability. The proposal is already receiving wide approval. Frederick Humphries, Microsoft's VP of US government affairs, tweeted, "We agree with the goals of the PATCH Act and look forward to working w-Sens @RonJohnsonWI @SenCoryGardner @brianschatz, Reps @farenthold @tedlieu to help prevent cyberattacks." Thomas Gann, chief public policy officer at McAfee, commented: "All governments have to balance national security interests with economic interests. In some cases, governments have an interest in using certain vulnerabilities for intelligence gathering purposes to protect their national interests in ways that make it impossible to disclose. That said, we support the effort by Senators Schatz and Johnson to establish an equitable vulnerabilities review process. This will help facilitate the disclosure of previously unknown vulnerabilities. An improved process will help balance security and economic interests while also enhancing trust and transparency." Megan Stifel, cybersecurity policy director at Public Knowledge, said, "We thank these legislators for leading this effort to foster greater transparency and accountability on the cybersecurity policy challenge of software and hardware vulnerabilities. We welcome this bill and similar efforts to enhance trust in the internet and internet-enabled devices." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598666cefc42d78dc5ddb" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Free Scanner Finds 50,000 EternalBlue-Vulnerable Systems", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/free-scanner-finds-50000-eternalblue-vulnerable-systems", "Date" : "July 13, 2017", "Article" : "More than 50,000 computers vulnerable to the NSA-linked EternalBlue exploit were found by a free vulnerability scanner in recent weeks. Dubbed Eternal Blues, the tool was designed to provide network administrators with visibility into the EternalBlue-vulnerable machines in their networks, but without actually exploiting the flaw. In the wake of WannaCry, NotPetya, and other global infections leveraging the NSA-linked exploit, knowing whether a network is vulnerable or not is certainly a good idea. According to Elad Erez, the security researcher who built the scanner, data collected through Eternal Blues over the past couple of weeks reveals that more than 50,000 scanned hosts are vulnerable to the exploit. Erez also warns that sometimes all it takes is a single vulnerable machine to compromise an entire network. Using Eternal Blues, the administrator(s) of a network with around 10,000 hosts found the only two machines that were still vulnerable, thus securing the entire environment. As of July 12, over 8 million IPs were scanned using Eternal Blues, most of which (1.5 million) are located in France. Vulnerable machines were found in around 130 countries and the top 3 countries u201chad more than 30,000 vulnerable hosts altogether,u201d the security researcher says. Over half (53.82%) of the vulnerable hosts still have SMBv1 enabled, the researcher also discovered. Moreover, he notes that 1 out of 9 hosts in a network is vulnerable to EternalBlue. Although Eternal Blues found only around 50,000 vulnerable systems, Erez warns that the number is much higher. Issues with the scanner prevented it from correctly reporting the number of vulnerable host. The researcher addressed those in a version released on July 2, but didnu2019t take previous findings into account when presenting the above numbers. According to Erez, however, awareness on EternalBlue appears to have increased. The mere fact that admins are using the scanner is proof of that, he says. To keep systems and networks secure, admins should apply the latest patches, perform periodic assessments of risks in their networks, and disable SMBv1, the researcher says. He also advises enabling automatic updates on Windows systems. u201cPlease, donu2019t be mistaken u2013 recent ransomware attacks are the ones that made all the buzz, since they actually tell you when they hit you. I believe there are many more EternalBlue-based attacks which remain off the radar and are still unknown to,u201d the researcher points out. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598756cefc42d78dc5e02" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Botnet Spread via NSA Hacking Tools for Weeks", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/botnet-spread-nsa-hacking-tools-weeks", "Date" : "May 16, 2017", "Article" : "The ransomware attack that stormed the world over the past several days wasnu2019t the first to leverage the leaked EternalBlue/DoublePulsar NSA hacking tools for distribution, Proofpoint researchers have discovered. WannaCry might have gained everyoneu2019s attention because of its destructive potential, but credit to being the first to use the EternalBlue exploit abusing a Server Message Block (SMB) vulnerability on TCP port 445 should go to the cryptocurrency miner Adylkuzz, Proofpoint says. Similar to WannaCry, the attack leverages the EternalBlue exploit to rapidly propagate from machine to machine, along with the NSA backdoor called DoublePulsar which is used to install a malicious payload on compromised machines. Symptoms of infection, however, arenu2019t as visible as with WannaCry: loss of access to shared Windows resources and degradation of PC and server performance. Whatu2019s more, the malicious code also shuts down SMB networking to prevent infections with other malware. According to ProofPoint security researcher Kafeine, this attack might have been much larger than the ransomware outbreak. Furthermore, Kafeine suggests that, because Adylkuzz specifically patched the vulnerability targeted by WannaCry, it might have limited the latteru2019s infection. What is certain, however, is that u201cthe Adylkuzz campaign significantly predates the WannaCry attack, beginning at least on May 2 and possibly as early as April 24.u201d Kafeine also notes that the infection is ongoing and is potentially quite disruptive, although not as flashy as the ransomware rampage. The Adylkuzz attack is launched from several virtual private servers. EternalBlue is abused for compromise, then the DoublePulsar backdoor is installed to download and run Adylkuzz from another host. Once up and running, the cryptocurrency miner first stops any potential instances of itself and blocks SMB communication to avoid further infection. Next, the malware determines the public IP address of the victim and then downloads the mining instructions, the cryptominer, and cleanup tools. As it turns out, the cryptominer binaries and mining instructions are hosted on multiple command and control (C&C) servers at the same time. As part of this attack, Adylkuzz is mining for Monero, a cryptocurrency that saw a surge in activity after the AlphaBay darknet market adopted it last year: BondNet, a Monero-mining botnet that has been active since December 2016, was detailed recently, the Sundown exploit kit was previously dropping a Monero miner, and a Go-based miner was seen last year targeting Linux systems. Unlike Bitcoin, which now generally requires dedicated, high-performance machines, the Monero mining process can be easily distributed across a botnet, Kafeine explains. Mining payments associated with an Adylkuzz address suggests the attacks started on April 24. On May 11, the actor supposedly switched to a new mining user address, to avoid having too many Moneros paid to a single address. Three observed addresses received around $43,000 in payments, the researcher says. u201cWe have currently identified over 20 hosts set up to scan and attack, and are aware of more than a dozen active Adylkuzz C&C servers. We also expect that there are many more Monero mining payment addresses and Adylkuzz C&C servers associated with this activity,u201d Kafeine notes. The SMB vulnerability that both WannaCry and Adylkuzz abuse has been addressed by Microsoft in March 2017, and also resolved on unsupported platforms via an emergency patch released over the weekend. Installing these patches should prevent the malware from spreading further. In the meantime, security researchers apparently linked the WannaCry attacks to the North Korea-linked hacking group Lazarus and suggest that more attacks might follow. Although the attacks have slowed down significantly as of Monday, even industrial systems might be at risk, experts warn. In the light of these attacks, installing the latest Windows patches might have never been a better course of action. u201cFor organizations running legacy versions of Windows or who have not implemented the SMB patch that Microsoft released last month, PCs and servers will remain vulnerable to this type of attack. Whether they involve ransomware, cryptocurrency miners, or any other type of malware, these attacks are potentially quite disruptive and costly. Two major campaigns have now employed the attack tools and vulnerability; we expect others will follow and recommend that organizations and individuals patch their machines as soon as possible,u201d Kafeine says. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598796cefc42d78dc5e0b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "NSA's EternalBlue Exploit Fully Ported to Metasploit", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/nsas-eternalblue-exploit-fully-ported-metasploit", "Date" : "May 16, 2017", "Article" : "The National Security Agency (NSA)-linked EternalBlue exploit that became well known after being used in a recent global ransomware campaign has been ported to the popular Metasploit penetration testing Framework. Along with DoublePulsar, EternalBlue is one of the latest exploits publicly released by the hackers calling themselves u201cThe Shadow Brokersu201d and is said to have been used by the NSA-linked Equation Group to launch cyber-attacks. When EternalBlue was made public, however, the flaw had been already addressed by Microsoft in their March security patches. Abusing a vulnerability in Windowsu2019 Server Message Block (SMB) on port 445, EternalBlue allowed the WannaCry ransomware to spread like a worm and hit over 200,000 machines within a few days only. Before WannaCry, however, a crypto-currency mining botnet dubbed Adylkuzz had been using the same exploit to compromise devices. Researchers currently estimate there to be roughly one million computers Internet-acessible systems vulnerable to EternalBlue, but chances are that many more existed only a couple of days ago. Not only did Microsoft issue an emergency patch to protect older systems over the weekend, but the Adylkuzz botnet also blocks access to SMB after infection, to prevent other malware from exploiting the vulnerability. Because malicious actors are already using EternalBlue in live attacks, researchers decided to add the exploit to the open source Metasploit Framework, a tool for developing and executing exploit code against a remote target machine. The framework is a sub-project of the penetration testing project Metasploit, which is a collaboration of the open source community and Rapid7. The vulnerability exploited by EternalBlue is in SMBv1, but the exploit uses SMBv2 for the shellcode, one of the researchers behind the port, who goes by the online handle of zerosum0x0, explains. The penetration tester also notes that the code is still a little rough, but that more work will be done to it. u201cThe genie is already out of the bottle with EternalBlue. Let's keep in mind it's probably easier to rebundle the EternalBlue.exe than it is to pull in Ruby and Metasploit. Also, the original exploit still targets more versions. Just patch your systems people, it really isn't that hard. White hats need this exploit (instead of sketchy NSA malware) to show its impact to clients,u201d the researcher says. The researchers also notes that FuzzBunch (NSAu2019s exploitation framework similar to Metasploit) makes the attack point and click, and that cybercriminals already have worms abusing it. The addition of EternalBlue to Metasploit should prove of great help to the infosec community, zerosum0x0 explains. u201cI look at it this way, attackers and defenders are in an asymmetric war. If study is not done to the tools that are available to attackers, it is impossible to defend against them,u201d the researcher says. Catalin Cosoi, Chief Security Strategist at Bitdefender, already expressed fears that EternalBlue-powered ransomware is bound to become the norm. Because many organizations failed to patch their systems in a timely manner, u201cit was only a matter of time until a cybercriminal group would weaponize the leaked vulnerability and strike at unpatched Windows systems,u201d he said. u201cComputers in public institutions, hospitals and other care facilities are usually rarely updated. If they are not hit by ransomware now, these computers are vulnerable for state sponsored attacks for as long as they remain unpatched. Ransomware is the best case scenario now, because itu2019s visible. But complex threats can be built on it, to stay persistent and infiltrate organizations for a very long time,u201d Cosoi added. One major difference between the Metasploit port of EternalBlue and the recent WannaCry and Adylkuzz attacks is the use of DoublePulsar. Instead of the NSA backdoor, the open source project stages Meterpreter userland payloads directly from the kernel through a queued APC. A shellcode that uses a similar technique as DoublePulsar's DLL injection is used, but is much smaller in size (up to 1000 bytes, depending on options enabled, compared to the 5000 bytes the NSA code has). u201cThis exploit also demonstrates what is important in the exploit for IDS/IPS/firewall rule makers. By finding out everything that can be nulled out, it evades many rules which were not fully considered, however those vendors can now add proper rules before an "0-day" worm version of it comes out,u201d zerosum0x0 points out. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35988b6cefc42d78dc5e36" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Free EternalBlue Vulnerability Scanner Released", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/free-eternalblue-vulnerability-scanner-released", "Date" : "June 30, 2017", "Article" : "A free tool that can scan networks to discover computers that are vulnerable to the NSA-linked EternalBlue exploit is now available. EternalBlue is a tool that hacker group ShadowBrokers allegedly stolen from the National Security Agency (NSA)-linked Equation Group. It was made public in April this year, one month after Microsoft released patches for it and for various other exploits. - In addition to being fully ported to Metasploit, EternalBlue was one of the seven NSA exploits to have been included in a network worm dubbed EternalRocks. What made the exploit famous, however, was its use in the global WannaCry outbreak. Weeks before WannaCry, however, a stealth Remote Access Trojan (RAT) was using the exploit to compromise systems. The cryptocurrency miner Adylkuzzu00a0was also abusing EternalBlue before WannaCry. Additionally, theu00a0UIWIX ransomwareu00a0was using the exploit around the same time as WannaCry. Over the past week, EternalBlue came into focus once again, as it started being used in yet another worldwide outbreak by the destructive NotPetya wiper. Microsoft president and chief legal officer Brad Smith has already warned of the risks that stockpiling exploits brings along, and a bi-partisan group of lawmakers already announced the introduction of the 'Protecting Our Ability to Counter Hacking Act of 2017' -- the PATCH Act. This, however, does little to protect companies from attacks leveraging EternalBlue, especially if they are unaware of the existence of vulnerable machines within their networks. Dubbed Eternal Blues, the newly released free tool is meant to provide a helpful hand by scanning their network for computers that can be compromised via this exploit. According to the toolu2019s developer Elad Erez, Eternal Blues has been already tested on real world networks. The utility wasnu2019t meant to exploit the vulnerability, but only to find it and notify of its existence. u201cThe majority of latest WannaCry, NotPetya victims are not technical organizations and sometimes just small business who donu2019t have a security team, or even just an IT team to help them mitigate this. I aimed to create a simple u2018one-buttonu2019 tool that tells you one thing and one thing only u2013 which systems are vulnerable in your network,u201d Erez explains. The developer also advises admins who find vulnerable computers using his tool to apply the necessary patches as soon as possible, and also to disable SMBv1, even on patched systems, considering that the protocol was written over three decades ago. The tool, he reveals, sends anonymous usage statistics through Google Analytics, including number of scanned computers and found vulnerabilities. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598926cefc42d78dc5e44" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Microsoft: Latest 'Shadow Brokers' Exploits Already Patched", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/microsoft-latest-shadow-brokers-exploits-already-patched", "Date" : "April 18, 2017", "Article" : "The hacker group calling itself u201cShadow Brokersu201d has made public another batch of files allegedly obtained from the NSA-linked threat actor tracked as the Equation Group. Microsoft has assured customers that these new exploits donu2019t affect up-to-date systems. The Shadow Brokers recently published a password to a previously leaked file and many believed it would represent the groupu2019s last dump. However, the hackers released another round of files on Friday, including exploits for Windows and IBMu2019s Lotus Domino platform. The leaked files also appear to show that the Equation Group breached the SWIFT banking network and monitored a number of Middle Eastern banks. Microsoft has analyzed the latest dump and identified a dozen exploits targeting its Windows operating system. According to the company, some of the vulnerabilities leveraged by these exploits were patched back in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2014. Four of the exploits, dubbed EternalBlue, EternalChampion, EternalRomance and EternalSynergy, were addressed by Microsoft with the March 2017 security updates u2014 a majority with the MS17-010 patch. The tech giant also pointed out that the remaining exploits do not work on Windows 7 and later, or Exchange 2010 and later. Microsoft has not shared any information on how it learned about the vulnerabilities. However, experts believe the NSA itself may have disclosed the flaws to the company. The Shadow Brokers published the names of the exploits leaked on Friday back in January, when they announced an auction for Windows tools. After seeing the list published in January, the NSA may have decided to alert Microsoft knowing that the exploits would likely be made public at some point. Microsoft doesn't credit anyone for the report behind the March patch. Was it @NSAGov? If so, it was the right call. Better late than never. https://t.co/aq24jw8fcV u2014 Edward Snowden (@Snowden) April 15, 2017    Itu2019s also worth noting that Microsoft postponed its February 2017 security updates due to an unspecified u201clast minute issue,u201d and the March patches contained fixes for several of the Equation Group exploits. While there has been a lot of speculation as to who might be behind the Shadow Brokers u2014 some say Russia, while others believe it could be an NSA contractor u2014 the hackers continue to claim that their main goal is to make money. Theyu2019ve had several sales strategies, including auctions and crowdfunding, but the Bitcoin address they have provided received only 10 bitcoins. In a brief statement they published on Friday, the hackers suggested that more files could be released this week. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35989d6cefc42d78dc5e5d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "UK's Metropolitan Police Still Using 10,000 Windows XP Computers", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/uks-metropolitan-police-still-using-10000-windows-xp-computers", "Date" : "June 28, 2017", "Article" : "Legacy Windows XP systems used by public authorities in the UK remains a concern. The WannaCry outbreak last month followed by the current 'NotPetya' outbreak -- both using a vulnerability patched in newer versions of Windows, but initially unpatched in XP -- highlights the problem. Information obtained by Steve O'Connell, a member of the London Assembly and a Conservative Party spokesperson for policing and crime, shows that the Metropolitan Police Service (MPS, or the Met) was still using 18,293 XP machines on their network at the time of providing the information. Since XP is no longer supported by Microsoft, it is left vulnerable to any new exploits such as EternalBlue and DoublePulsar -- and it appears that only the tendency for WannaCry to crash XP rather than infect it prevented the worldwide outbreak from being far worse than it was. The Met's position is more precarious than implied by O'Connell's figures. Last month, the UK's data protection regulator, the ICO, published findings (PDF) from a consensual audit of the Met. While finding some areas of 'good practice', it also noted other areas in need of improvement. In particular, one area for improvement includes the continued use of XP on some desktops and laptops leading to "a residual risk to personal data." But in relation to WannaCry and NotPetya, this risk is magnified by weaknesses in both the Met's backup and business continuity procedures. "Backup arrangements for file systems are not tested to ensure that they are recoverable in the event of a disaster." Furthermore, "The database used to store BC information is unsupported and not backed up." The ICO's conclusion was that "The audit has identified considerable scope for improvement in existing arrangements to reduce the risk of non-compliance [with the Data Protection Act]." The combination of a vulnerable system and untested recovery capabilities is particularly susceptible to ransomware -- and even more so where the ransomware attacks are more intent on mischief than collecting ransoms, as seems to be the case with both WannaCry and NotPetya. The threat to, or potential loss of, personal data stored by the Metropolitan Police is particularly concerning. "It is vital the Met is given the resources to step up its upgrade timeline before we see another cyber-attack with nationwide security implications," warns O'Connell. But, of course, things are never so simple. SecurityWeek reached out to the Met to confirm O'Connell's figures, and received the following statement: "The MPS is undergoing a complete refresh of its information technology processes, infrastructure, and equipment - including its desktop computers.u00a0 "However, the upgrade programme is not as simple as it would be for many other organizations due to the amount of specialist legacy software upon which parts of the MPS still rely. "Replacements or remediation for this software that are compatible with a more modern operating system have to be ready before the roll-out is completed to ensure continued operational effectiveness. "We have completed the upgrade of just over 17,000 devices to Windows 8.1, and this reduces the number of desktops running Previous XP to around 10,000." The spokesperson did not know, and was unable to find out in time for this article, whether the Met has patched all its Windows systems (not just the XP ones) against MS17-010 vulnerabilities (also known as the EternalBlue vulnerabilities) after the WannaCry outbreak. However, he did add, "The entire Met ICT estate has a number of layers of industry-leading security, which we have been monitoring closely over the past 24 hours. The MPS estate currently remains un-impacted by the cyber-attack and our security checks continue." The complicating factor of legacy software on legacy systems is a problem, and not just for the Met. "I'm sympathetic to the fact that financially stretched government agencies and public services may not feel that an OS upgrade is the best use of scarce resources," independent security expert David Harley told SecurityWeek.u00a0 "Sometimes," he continued, "there are technical reasons for not upgrading a system required to run specific software or peripherals. There may be systems for which an OS upgrade is expected to damage functionality for other reasons, such as underpowered hardware. There are systems that may not require updating because they're fully air-gapped, I suppose. And the risk from running systems that can no longer be updated is sometimes overhyped: there's plenty of malware that doesn't rely on unpatched Windows versions to allow it to execute." But none of this means that organizations can relax their efforts to upgrade XP systems. "Nonetheless," concluded Harley, "the risk of attack by malware that makes use of vulnerabilities in unpatched machines (such as the new Petya variant that apparently makes use of EternalBlue) is quite significant enough to make it unwise to rely on systems that are no longer normally updated, even if the agencies concerned are taking advantage of rare events like Microsoft's XP patch in May... After all, dangers to their data, systems and internal processes don't only affect their 'business' but all of us." The bottom line is that 10,000 XP systems still in use by the Metropolitan Police Service is really 10,000 too many. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598e26cefc42d78dc5edc" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Industry Reactions to WannaCry Ransomware Attacks", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/industry-reactions-wannacry-ransomware-attacks", "Date" : "May 16, 2017", "Article" : "The WannaCry ransomware, also known as Wanna Decryptor, WanaCrypt0r, WannaCrypt, Wana Decrypt0r and WCry, has infected more than 200,000 devices worldwide. The attacks affected banks, hospitals, ISPs, government agencies, transportation companies and manufacturing plants. While the campaign has earned the attackers more than $50,000 in just a few days, some experts are not convinced that profit-driven cybercriminals are behind the operation, and suggested that it could be the work of a nation-state actor, including one sponsored by North Korea. The attacks involved exploits dubbed EternalBlue and DoublePulsar, both leaked recently by a hacker group calling itself Shadow Brokers. The exploits were allegedly used by a threat actor called the Equation Group, which has been linked to the NSA. The EternalBlue exploit leverages a Server Message Block (SMB) vulnerability in Windows that can be exploited remotely without user interaction, which is the main reason why the ransomware managed to wreak havoc. The flaw was patched by Microsoft in March and the company has even made available fixes for outdated versions of Windows. However, many organizations have not installed the patches and in the case of industrial control systems (ICS), which are also at risk, the situation is more complicated. Industry professionals shared thoughts on the WannaCry attacks, including the ICS, insurance, legal, cybersecurity strategy, attribution and other aspects of the story. And the feedback beginsu2026 Phil Neray, VP of Industrial Cybersecurity, CyberX: u201cAt the risk of sounding overly paranoid, I find it hard to believe that someone would orchestrate a global coordinated attack like this just to earn 50 thousand dollars. Security guru Bruce Schneier recently wrote that Russia and other nation-states often commit cyber-actions just for bragging purposes. For me, it's completely tenable that WannaCry is simply the Russians bragging they're already so deep into our critical infrastructure that we can't do anything about it. u00a0 Either way, it's worth noting that many of the SCADA applications embedded in our electrical grid and manufacturing plants were developed years ago and are tethered to older versions of Windows -- so the fix isn't going to be easy. u00a0 In the meantime, we should treat this attack as a persistent threat and continuously monitor both IT and OT networks for unusual activity. After all, how do we know that the same vulnerabilities haven't already been well-exploited for cyber-reconnaissance and cyber-espionage purposes? Or, that this isn't just the first phase of a more elaborate targeted campaign with the goal of causing massive disruption to our critical infrastructure and our economies?" Wendi Whitmore, Global Lead, IBM X-Force IRIS: u201cBased on IBM X-Force analysis of over 500M spam e-mails, it seems likely the initial victims of the WannaCry ransomware did not get infected by opening a malicious e-mail or attachments. This means that criminals might have compromised systems by other means. This makes finding u201cpatient zerou201d even more critical in the investigation. IBM X-Force is actively working with clients and law enforcement to track down this data.  Since Asia and Europe have come online today weu2019ve seen a modest increase in the amount of victims paying the ransom. So far, cybercriminals have pulled in $54,877.46 which continues to grow at ~1 BTC per hour.  Given the widespread propagation of the WannaCry ransomware in Eastern Europe and Asia, our research team suggests that these regions may be using older Microsoft software that is unsupported or pirated.u201d Joe Facciponti, attorney with Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft: u201cThe ransomware attack raises the possibility that victims will face regulatory enforcement actions and civil litigation in the U.S. and elsewhere. Indeed, last fall the former Chairwoman of the Federal Trade Commission (u201cFTCu201d) warned U.S. businesses, in the context of addressing ransomware, that a companyu2019s u201cunreasonableu201d failure to patch vulnerabilities might be cause for an enforcement action under the FTC Act. Further, the possibility of harm to consumers u2013 particular those who are potentially harmed by the loss of sensitive medical or financial data u2013 raise the possibility of costly class action litigation against companies that are the victims of ransomware attacks.u201d Bill Kelly, Senior Vice President, E&O Underwriting, Argo Group: u201cWatching this story continue to unravel, has truly highlighted the need for cyber insurance. Any company can experience a vulnerability no matter how prepared they think they are. While ransomware can result in a company paying small, very random amounts, business interruption can be much more significant and can potentially cost millions. u00a0 There will always be a vulnerability that canu2019t be controlled and from an insurance standpoint, this is validation for the industry. In addition to having companies properly train their employees and ensure that they are up to speed on the importance of updating software patches in a consistent routine and have backup plans in place, it pays to have cyber insurance. Cybersecurity breaches are a reality every business must think about and having a whole team dedicated to helping you when something like this happens - from breach coaches and responders to forensic investigators - it's the best way to mitigate damages. We're continuing to learn from attacks like these by researching and working with industry experts to better understand the best ways to mitigate losses for our clients.u201d Jackson Shaw, senior director of product management at One Identity: u201cI applaud Microsoft for making the bold move to patch older, unsupported operating systems. They are under no obligation to do so and the organizations that did not upgrade their systems despite Microsoftu2019s statements that the OSes were moving to an unsupported state must accept the risk and responsibility for their decision. I liken it to this: when was the last time you took your eight year old car in for service and the repair shop said, u201cDonu2019t worry. Iu2019ll just find that part which is no longer being produced and have it here in twelve hours for youu2026free of charge.u201d Thatu2019s what Microsoft did. u00a0 Will Microsoftu2019s release of a patch encourage organizations NOT to upgrade older systems? Probably. But what a shame that will be. If they donu2019t, they will be hacked again. And again. And again. u00a0 I applaud Microsoftu2019s desire to have a Digital Geneva Convention but at the same time, feel itu2019s a bit nau00efve. Attacking a civilian or a hospital with a grenade is far easier to spot and track than cyber weapons. And honestly, do we expect hackers, people who are behind these dreadful attacks, to adhere to some ethical set of guidelines? I think not.u201d Barak Perelman, CEO, Indegy: u201cThe first response to this threat is to make sure all Windows-based machines are patched - this is a standard best practice. However, in industrial environments not all systems can be patched, since some support continuous operations that must operate 24X7. Such systems can't be restarted for example. There are also concerns around system availability and stability associated with deploying security patches. u00a0 Meanwhile, non-Windows based systems in industrial networks are also exposed to cyber threats and are much more difficult to protect. This includes the critical automation controllers (PLCs, RTUs and DCS controllers) that can't be easily patched, or don't have patches available. To make matters worse, due to the lack of encryption and access controls in industrial networks, attackers do not need to exploit vulnerabilities in order to compromise these critical control devices and shutdown operations.u201d Brad Hegrat, Director of Advisory Services, IOActive: u201cHistorically, general purpose, run of the mill malware that leverages SMB and NetBIOS interfaces in the industrial environment are particularly troublesome, with many systems remaining infected many years later. [...] With the WannaCry/WanaCrypt ransomware in the wild, crossing into industrial control systems would be particularly devastating. Systems requiring real-time interfacing and control influence over physical assets could face safety/critical shutdown, or worse. When thinking about critical services to modern society (power, water, wastewater, etc.), there is a real potential, potentially for the first time ever, where critical services could be suspended due to ransomware. It may be time to rethink critical infrastructure cybersecurity engineering, because if MS17-010 exploiting malware variants are successful, we are clearly doing something wrong.u201d Kevin Curran, IEEE Senior Member and Cybersecurity Professor at Ulster University: u201cThe spread of the attack was brought to a sudden halt when one UK cybersecurity researcher found and inadvertently activated a u201ckill switchu201d in the malicious software. It turns out that the virus was coded to check to see if an obscure website address was registered and live and to halt if this was the case. It was effectively a kill switch. This however can easily be overcome in a modified release which is what has already happened. Yes, this has indeed slowed the initial attack but this is only the first wave of such wormable ransomware attacks. u00a0 Finally, the warnings that security experts have been sounding for years has finally come to the attention of the public - that is that more money needs to be spent on cybersecurity and that organizations need to run modern patched operating systems and educate their staff in safe computing and of course to simply back up. Regular off premises (or non-network attached) backups would have prevented this modern nightmare.u201d Chris Goettl, product manager at Ivanti: u201cMost effective malware has the ability to adapt and use a number of exploits to infect and propagate. We are witnessing a jackpot or perfect storm combination that has allowed this attack to be so effective so quickly. It reminds me of incidents like Conficker, where all the right exploits came together to create the Mona Lisa of cyber attacks. u00a0 One tweet criticized Edward Snowden and called out the NSA for not privately disclosing the SMBv1 exploit when they first discovered it. While I do not condone agencies for discovering exploits and keeping them quiet, which puts us at long term risk, this vulnerability had the potential to contribute just as badly to an attack of this magnitude, regardless. Think about it: whether the vulnerability was disclosed a year ago or just recently, a knowledgeable attacker would have taken advantage of the vulnerability. This update, regardless of when it was released, made a change in the handling of SMB traffic which could cause significant issues when rolling out an update.u201d Moshe Ben-Simon, co-founder & VP services at Trapx: u201cDue to compliance regulations, such as HIPPA, healthcare network admins cannot easily update Internet connected medical devices with the newest operating systems and patches. These devices are sealed to protect the equipment from failure in the event a software update inadvertently affects the operation of the device. While this ultimately protects patients from potential harm from a malfunctioning device, it has the potential leave the network open to attackers who are finding new ways to exploit old vulnerabilities, such as the recent WannaCry attack. If these devices arenu2019t updated by the manufacturers immediately, they will continue to be susceptible to these types of attacks. u00a0 To better protect hospital networks that are using Internet connected medical devices, we recommend, reviewing and beefing up backup processes. It becomes essential to have an offsite backup on a daily basis. More important is a robust, tested, disaster recovery process that ensures core IT systems can be brought back up in a few hours. Most hospitals have backup in place to support compliance, of course, but really cannot restore key applications and recover operations fast enough in the face of a ransomware attack. When an environment faces a true disaster, even a well-planned disaster recovery strategy will typically take days until full operations are restored. Do the work to make sure this takes only a few hours.u201d Ilia Kolochenko, CEO of High-Tech Bridge: "This incident exposes how a two-month old vulnerability can cause global panic and paralyze the largest companies and governmental institutions on all continents. Worse, cybercriminals could have easily released this worm just after the NSA's 0day was leaked two months ago, and this would have led to much more destructive consequences. [...] It would be unreasonable and inappropriate to blame the NSA for any significant contribution to this attack. Similar 0days are bought and sold almost every day, and many other organizations participate in these auctions - virtually anyone can (un)intentionally leak an exploit and cause similar damage. The real problem is that in 2017, the largest companies and governments still fail to patch publicly disclosed flaws for months. Practically speaking, the NSA doesn't really need a 0day to get their data - their negligence "invite" attackers to get in.  Companies and organizations that have fallen victim to this attack, can consider contacting their legal departments to evaluate whether their IT contractors can be held liable for negligence and breach of duty. Failure to update production systems for over two months - can certainly qualify at least as carelessness in many jurisdictions." Erez Breiman, CTO, Minera Labs: u201cThe WannaCry outbreak highlights the challenges of defending legacy systems and services that are hard to patch, isolate and otherwise protect without impeding performance, violating vendor contracts or inconveniencing business users. As we already know, WannaCry uses a well-known exploit to access vulnerable machines via the SMB protocol. Optimized for the speed of propagation, this worm doesnu2019t attempt to hiding itself or attempt to evade detection mechanisms. After all, systems that are missing patches and that are not isolated behind a firewall that blocks unnecessary ports are also missing baseline antivirus and other endpoint security products. Organizations can contain the spread of malware to such systems by employing malware vaccination to stabilize the situation.u201d Sean Sullivan, security advisor at F-Secure: u201cThis is a blast from the past as this kind of ransomware isnu2019t anything new. For far too long, organizations have been ignoring basic firewall hygiene which is why WannaCry has gotten out of hand so easily. u00a0 u201cThis is not the worst-case scenario. The silver lining is that this wasnu2019t a destructive terrorist or nation state attack. Because it was profit-driven, it was designed to be undone upon payment and therefore there may be a chance to recover. However, this is a huge proof of concept for nation state actors that want to do something that might not be recoverable.u201d Dana Simberkoff, chief compliance and risk officer at AvePoint: u201cWithin a company, security and data protection are not just the job of your CISO and CPO. It's everyoneu2019s responsibility every day. Your employees may not be responsible for updating their corporate laptops and company issued devices, but if they're connecting to your corporate networks with personal devices, or home computers, they must be responsibly applying patches and updates to their own systems. Good cyber hygiene requires that you patch and update your operating systems regularly and as often as necessary. Operating systems that were properly patched were protected from this vulnerability by default. u00a0 Going forward you must implement continuous and ongoing education of your employees. This education cannot be a once a year training course, but rather it must be pervasive throughout the culture of your organization. Because in the absence of security education or experience, people (employees, users, and customers) naturally make poor security decisions with technology. This means that systems need to be easy to use securely and difficult to use insecurely. Your security and data protection education program should include information about the importance of patching your operating systems and the direct tie of u201cunpatched systemsu201d to vulnerabilities.u201d Phillip Hallam-Baker, principal scientist, Comodo: u201cRansomware is following the same trajectory as phishing. The criminals have worked out how to monetize the crime, and they know which types of businesses are likely to pay up-- and how to collect the money without being caught. u00a0 It appears that the NSA breach has accelerated the process. Instead of having to develop their own zero-day attacks, the criminals have used of an arsenal developed by experts at developing cyber-weapons. u00a0 The U.S. government clearly had its priorities wrong. Whether or not you think the U.S. government should be spending a fortune developing such cyber-weapons, surely it is obvious that the weapons they develop should be properly secured. If someone had lost a nuclear weapon, heads would have rolled. The CIA and NSA have been breached on a massive scale, and now the effects are being felt. What is going to be done to stop further leaks?u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598ee6cefc42d78dc5eef" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Industrial Systems at Risk of WannaCry Ransomware Attacks", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/industrial-systems-risk-wannacry-ransomware-attacks", "Date" : "May 16, 2017", "Article" : " Experts and vendors have warned that industrial control systems (ICS) are also at risk of being compromised in WannaCry ransomware attacks. The WannaCry ransomware, also known as Wanna Decryptor, WanaCrypt0r, WannaCrypt, Wana Decrypt0r and WCry, has infected more than 200,000 systems worldwide, including ones housed by banks, hospitals, ISPs, government agencies, transportation companies and manufacturing plants. While the campaign has helped the attackers make more than $50,000 in just a few days, not everyone is convinced that profit-driven cybercriminals are behind the operation, with some suggesting that it could be the work of a nation-state actor. The attacks involved an exploit named EternalBlue and a backdoor dubbed DoublePulsar, both leaked recently by a hacker group calling itself Shadow Brokers. The exploits were allegedly used by a threat actor called the Equation Group, which has been linked to the NSA. The EternalBlue exploit leverages a Server Message Block (SMB) vulnerability in Windows that can be exploited remotely without user interaction, which is the main reason why the ransomware managed to wreak havoc. The flaw was patched by Microsoft in March and the tech giant has even made available fixes for outdated versions of Windows. However, many organizations have not installed the patches and the situation is even more complicated in the case of industrial systems. An advisory published by ICS-CERT on Monday informs users that automation giants Rockwell Automation and Schneider Electric have provided recommendations on how customers can prevent attacks. This includes installing Microsoftu2019s patches, updating security software, creating backups, training employees, and configuring access controls to block unauthorized access to sensitive systems. ICS-CERT also referenced an advisory published by medical technology firm BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company), which issued a warning after the WannaCry attacks affected many healthcare facilities. ICS security firm Claroty pointed out that the ransomware has already hit Windows systems running ICS software, causing failures that impacted production. Some of the affected manufacturing companies decided to halt production due to concerns for personal safety and potential damage to expensive assets. The company believes industrial environments are particularly susceptible to these types of attacks for several reasons, including the improper segmentation of IT and OT networks, unpatched Windows machines, and the presence of SMB on devices hosting HMIs, engineering workstations, historians and other systems. Another problem highlighted by Claroty is related to WannaCryu2019s kill switch.u00a0This kill switch involves a non-existent domain name that the malware contacts before initiating its malicious routine. If the domain does exist, the malware terminates u2013 this has allowed the security community to neutralize some variants of the threat by registering the domain names specified in the malware code. This discovery may have prevented many computers from becoming infected, but industrial systems are typically not connected to the public Internet, which makes the kill switch useless, Claroty said. While patching Windows machines is the best way to prevent attacks, Barak Perelman, CEO of industrial cyber security company Indegy, noted that this is not an option in many industrial environments as these systems often need to operate non-stop and they cannot be restarted. Another problem is that deploying security patches could have a negative impact on the stability and availability of a system. Phil Neray, VP of Industrial Cybersecurity at CyberX, also believes that patching the vulnerability is not easy in the case of ICS. u201cIt's worth noting that many of the SCADA applications embedded in our electrical grid and manufacturing plants were developed years ago and are tethered to older versions of Windows -- so the fix isn't going to be easy,u201d Neray said. u201cIn the meantime, we should treat this attack as a persistent threat and continuously monitor both IT and OT networks for unusual activity. After all, how do we know that the same vulnerabilities haven't already been well-exploited for cyber-reconnaissance and cyber-espionage purposes? Or, that this isn't just the first phase of a more elaborate targeted campaign with the goal of causing massive disruption to our critical infrastructure and our economies?u201d the expert added. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598f06cefc42d78dc5ef3" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : ""Patched" WannaCry Ransomware Has No Kill-Switch", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/patched-wannacry-ransomware-has-no-kill-switch", "Date" : "May 15, 2017", "Article" : "After researchers managed to stop the recent WannaCry ransomware outbreak by registering domains that function as kill-switches, a variant of the malware that no longer uses this function has emerged, security researchers warn. WannaCry, also referred to as WanaCrypt0r, WannaCrypt, Wana Decrypt0r, and WCry, managed to wreak havoc worldwide over the past three days, hittingu00a0hospitals, ISPs, banks, government agencies, and carmakers, among others. The attacks started to propagate fast on Friday, with Europe hit the most, and Europol immediately designed a task force to assist in the investigation. The threat managed to spread fast because of a worm component that abuses two recently disclosed NSA exploits targeting Windows. The first, EternalBlue, is abused to penetrate vulnerable machines, while the second, the DoublePulsar backdoor, is used to load the relevant payload DLL during exploitation. Once it has infected a computer, the malware starts connecting to random IP addresses on port 445, which is used by Server Message Block (SMB), and uses this venue to propagate itself to other computers on the network. This also means that, the more computers are infected, the faster the malware can spread to new ones. The EternalBlue vulnerabilityu00a0was patched by Microsoft with its March 2017 security updates (the MS17-010 patch), but only on supported platforms. Because of the severity of the ransomware outbreak, Microsoftu00a0issued an emergency patch for older versions of Windows versions that no longer receive mainstream support: Windows XP, Windows 8, and Windows Server 2003. Because many companies (and end-users alike) fail to install operating system updates immediately after they are issued, chances are that the remedy wonu2019t be immediately effective. What did help prevent the ransomware from running its malicious routines and from spreading further, however, was the registering of a domain used by the malware. Security researcher @MalwareTech noticed that the malware was making calls to a u201clong nonsensical domain nameu201d and decided to register it, only to discover later that he stopped the spreading. WannaCry would beacon to the domain before starting its malicious routine, but did not expect a response, given that the domain wasnu2019t registered. If a response did come and the domain was alive, however, the threat would terminate execution and no longer infect the machine. The use of such a domain was supposedly meant to help the malware avoid sandbox analysis, Bitdefender e-threat analyst Bogdan Botezatu told SecurityWeek. When it detects requests to a domain that doesnu2019t exist, the sandbox creates the domain on the fly to capture the traffic the malware would generate. To prevent that, malicious programs terminate when receiving a response, as that is an indicator of a sandbox being used. When the security researcher registered the domain (which was hardcoded in the malware), WannaCry started treating all newly compromised machines as sandboxes and terminated the infection routine (but that didnu2019t help those already infected). This hardcoded domain was called u201ckill-switchu201d and proved highly effective in stopping the threat, yet it didnu2019t take long before new variants that used different kill-switch domains started making the rounds. To make the matter worse, variations without the kill-switch have also emerged, though some of them appear to feature a corrupted ransomware archive, meaning that useru2019s files donu2019t end up being encrypted. Others, however refute such claims, suggesting that this only applies to the ransomware payload, which lacks the spreading wrapper. During a phone call with SecurityWeek, Bogdan Botezatu said the u201cno kill-switchu201d variation he observed is actually the original ransomware that has been patched with the help of a hex editor. Basically, code was added to ensure the kill-switch routine is skipped during infection, and the difference between the normal variant and the u201cno kill-switchu201d one is of only 2 bytes, he says. While he couldnu2019t attribute the WannaCry attacks to a specific individual or group of cybercriminals, Botezatu did say that the same actor appears to be operating both variants (with and without kill-switch) of the ransomware. u201cThere are some samples that donu2019t come with the kill-switch domain. Both versions (kill-switch enabled and non-kill-switch) are operated by the same gang as the Bitcoin wallets harvesting the ransom are the same,u201d he said. Although over 200,000 machines have been infected to date, the WannaCry authors have made an estimated $40,000 so far, an analysis of the known wallets reveals. That might not seem like much, but the fact that the outbreak happened over the weekend certainly had something to do with it. Now that the weekend is over, the number of payments made to the associated Bitcoin addresses could increase. As it turns out, the worm component in this malware u2013 the one responsible for the outbreak u2013 is what made the threat stand out, but the ransomware component is nothing to write home about and doesnu2019t include the same level of sophistication as Locky, Cerber, or Jaff display. Initially spotted by Malwarebytes researcher S!Ri in early February, WannaCry previously used email spam and malware droppers for distribution. The ransomware is believed to be the work of an inexperienced group, mainly because only three Bitcoin addresses are being used to collect payments, meaning that the actors will have a hard time knowing who paid the ransom and who didnu2019t. The ransomware, however, doesnu2019t include flaws and researchers canu2019t decrypt victimsu2019 files for free just yet. u201cThe ransomware component is not something out of the ordinary. On the contrary, the presence of a kill-switch and the nearly-identical implementation of the EternalBlue wormable feature with an open-source project hints that the operators are opportunistic attackers than veteran malware operators,u201d Botezatu said. u201cThis family of ransomware is something that may be hot today, but the exploitation avenue will be used by all cyber-crime operators to plant all sorts of malware. Step zero here for all Windows users would be to install the hotfix dealing with MS17-010, followed by the installation of an anti-malware solution, if they donu2019t have any. Last, but not least, as weu2019re talking about ransomware, users should take regular backups of their data so they have something to restore from if they fall victim,u201d he concluded. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3834ca6cefc42b0029464b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "NSAu2019s DoublePulsar Kernel Exploit In Use Internet-Wide", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/nsas-doublepulsar-kernel-exploit-in-use-internet-wide/125165/", "Date" : "April 24, 2017 , 3:31 pm", "Article" : "If youu2019re on a red team or have been on the receiving end of a pen-test report from one, then youu2019ve almost certainly encountered reports of Windows servers vulnerable to Conficker (MS08-067), which has been in the wild now for nearly 10 years since the bug was patched. A little more than two weeks after the latest ShadowBrokers leak of NSA hacking tools, experts are certain that the DoublePulsar post-exploitation Windows kernel attack will have similar staying power, and that pen-testers will be finding servers exposed to the flaws patched in MS17-010 for much longer than Conficker. MS17-010 was released in March and it closes a number of holes in Windows SMB Server exploited by the NSA. Exploits such as EternalBlue, EternalChampion, EternalSynergy and EternalRomance that are part of the Fuzzbunch exploit platform all drop DoublePulsar onto compromised hosts. DoublePulsar is a sophisticated memory-based kernel payload that hooks onto x86 and 64-bit systems and allows an attacker to execute any raw shellcode payload they wish. u201cThis is a full ring0 payload that gives you full control over the system and you can do what you want to it,u201d said Sean Dillon, senior security analyst at RiskSense. Dillon was the first to reverse-engineer a DoublePulsar payload, and published his analysis last Friday. u201cThis is going to be on networks for years to come. The last major vulnerability of this class was MS08-067, and itu2019s still found in a lot of places,u201d Dillon said. u201cI find it everywhere. This is the most critical Windows patch since that vulnerability.u201d Dan Tentler, founder and CEO of Phobos Group, said internet-net wide scans heu2019s running have found about 3.1 percent of vulnerable machines are already infected (between 62,000 and 65,000 so far), and that percentage is likely to go up as scans continue. u201cThis is easily describable as a bloodbath,u201d Tentler said. Since the April 7 ShadowBrokers leak, hackers have been downloading and using the NSA exploits to attack exposed computers. Theyu2019ve also posted downloadable documentation and videos to YouTube and other sources walking users through the various exploits, said Matthew Hickey, founder of U.K. consultancy Hacker House. u201cThe fact that people are using these attack tools in the wild is unsurprising,u201d Hickey said. u201cIt shows you these tools were very well developed, very weaponized and donu2019t require a lot of technical sophistication, so attackers are quick to adopt them into their repositories and toolkits. Subsequently, theyu2019re using them as-is.u201d At this point, some exploits are quite simply point-and-shoot operations where a user would just fill in a value such as a remote IP address and fire off the executable, said Jake Williams, president of Rendition InfoSec; Williams is also known as MalwareJake. u201cFor us, these are keys to the kingdom types of exploits,u201d Williams said. DoublePulsar works on older Windows Server versions with older versions of PatchGuard kernel protection; modern versions of Windows such as Windows 10 have better kernel checks that could help block or prevent these hooks deep into the OS. Once DoublePulsar is on a compromised host, an attacker can drop additional malware or executables onto a machine, meaning that this bug will quickly move from the exclusive realm of nation-state hackers to cybercriminals, and it may be a matter of time before ransomware and other commodity malware and botnets take advantage of these exploits to spread. For now, attacks are taking shape through the use of malformed SMB requests and sit on the same port as the one the SMB service runs on (445). Tentler said itu2019s a rarity that malware would use an existing running port, Tentler said. u201cIt does not open new ports. Once the backdoor is present, it can do one of four things: either it responds to a specific ping request (such as a heartbeat), it can uninstall itself, load shellcode, or run a DLL on the host. Thatu2019s it,u201d Tentler said. u201cItu2019s only purpose is to provide a covert channel by which to load other malware or executables.u201d One drawback for the attacker is that since the attack lives in memory, once a machine is rebooted, itu2019s gone. DoublePulsar also comes with a kill or burn command that wonu2019t remove the infection, but does prevent others from making use of the backdoor. Regardless, researchers are a bit disheartened that in the six weeks since the patch has been available, so many machines remain exposed. u201cThis is really a quite serious issue,u201d Hickey said. u201cThis is a level of attack we have not seen since Conficker, and certainly none with this ease of use. Now you have a nation-state attack tool available to anyone online to use for their own purposes. Itu2019ll be used to compromise and impact systems for many years to come.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3834d56cefc42b00294659" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Say Goodbye to SMBv1 in Windows Fall Creators Update", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/say-goodbye-to-smbv1-in-windows-fall-creators-update/126387/", "Date" : "June 20, 2017 , 8:41 am", "Article" : "The crusty SMBv1 file-sharing protocol, abused by a NSA exploit last month that spread WannaCry, will be removed from Windows 10 starting with the upcoming Redstone 3 update. u201cWe can confirm that SMBv1 is being removed for Redstone 3,u201d a Microsoft representative told Threatpost. Redstone 3, a code-name for the Fall Creators Update, will begin the phasing out of SMBv1, a plan that reportedly has been in the works for years and is not a reaction to the EternalBlue exploit, nor WannaCry. It is due in September. SMBv1, short for the Server Message Block protocol, provides shared access to Windows file and print services on a local network. Attackers believed to have ties to North Korea used the EternalBlue exploit, leaked in April by the ShadowBrokers, to spread the ransomware worldwide on May 12. Hospitals in the U.K., giant telecommunications providers across Europe, and many businesses in Russia and across Asia fell victim to WannaCry, which eventually infected unpatched Windows servers running SMBv1 in more than 150 countries. Microsoft had patched the SMBv1 vulnerability in question in March in MS17-010, one month before the ShadowBrokersu2019 leak, and urged admins worldwide to install the patch immediately. The WannaCry outbreak, however, demonstrated that many organizations did not heed those warnings; the ransomware, generally derided for its shoddy coding, still managed to infect more than 200,000 servers. The weaponized version of EternalBlue released by the ShadowBrokers is effective against only Windows 7 and Windows XP machines, but researchers at RiskSense were able to build a Windows 10 port that bypasses some of the mitigations in the Current Branch for Business version of the operating system. While a report on RiskSenseu2019s Windows 10 version of the attack is available, researchers wonu2019t release new offsets used to weaponize their attack. Microsoft, meanwhile, continues to plead with users running legacy versions of Windows to upgrade to Windows 10. The current version of the operating system includes a number of mitigations to deny EternalBlue and other weapons-grade Windows attacks leaked in April. Researchers echo those pleas as well, praising Windows 10u2019s mitigations such as kernel ASLR and DEP and virtualization-based security in Device Guard. Microsoft this week released an analysis of EternalBlue and EternalRomance, another SMB remote code execution attack and describe how each of the above mitigations, in addition to kernel Control Flow Guard, break the exploits available in the wild. u201cThrough VBSu2019s usage of CPU hypervisor functionality, Device Guard-enabled systems can verify and enforce integrity of code thatu2019s mapped in the kernel address space,u201d wrote Viktor Brange of the Windows Offensive Security Research Team. u201ckCFG prevents many exploitation techniques that rely on corrupting function pointers to achieve code execution.u201d While EternalBlue and its DoublePulsar backdoor have been studied on many fronts, EternalRomance is another SMBv1 attack that exploits a separate vulnerability, CVE-2017-0145, to gain remote code execution capabilities. u201cThis exploit was written to remotely install and launch an SMB backdoor. At the core of this exploit is au00a0type confusionu00a0vulnerability leading to anu00a0attacker offset controlledu00a0arbitrary heap write,u201d Brange wrote. u201cAs with almost anyu00a0heap corruptionu00a0exploit, the attacker must know or control the layout of the heap to consistently succeed. With SMB, most objects are allocated in the non-paged pool.u201d In its analysis, Microsoft explains how an attacker could learn a reliable heap layout, build primitives from corruption of the heap, and how all this enables installation of the in-memory backdoor. In addition to patching, Microsoft warns customers that exposing port 445 to the internet are making a massive mistake, and that SMB should be run inside the firewall. u201cHowever, if an attacker has access to a vulnerable endpoint running SMB, the ability to run arbitrary code in kernel context from a remote location is a serious compromise,u201d Microsoft said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3834eb6cefc42b0029467b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Rare XP Patches Fix Three Remaining Leaked NSA Exploits", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/rare-xp-patches-fix-three-remaining-leaked-nsa-exploits/126256/", "Date" : "June 14, 2017 , 8:50 am", "Article" : "The unusual decision Microsoft made to release patches on Tuesday for unsupported versions of Windows was prompted by three NSA exploits that remained unaddressed from Aprilu2019s ShadowBrokers leak. The worst of the bunch, an attack called ExplodingCan (CVE-2017-7269), targets older versions of Microsoftu2019s Internet Information Services (IIS) webserver, version 6.0 in particular, and enables an attacker to gain remote code execution on a Windows 2003 server. All three attacks allow an adversary to gain remote code execution; one is EsteemAudit, a vulnerability in the Windows Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) (CVE-2017-0176), while the other is EnglishmanDentist (CVE-2017-8487), a bug in OLE (Object Linking and Embedding). Microsoft said the patches are available for manual download. ExplodingCan merits a closer look because of the wide deployment of IIS 6.0. u201cGenerally, when you put a Windows machine on the internet, itu2019s going to be a server and itu2019s going to run a webserver, so there are production machines on the internet running IIS 6.0 right now,u201d said Sean Dillon, senior analyst at RiskSense and one of the first to analyze the NSAu2019s EternalBlue exploit that spread WannaCry ransomware on May 12. u201cItu2019s probably already been exploited for months now,u201d Dillon said. u201cAt least now thereu2019s a fix thatu2019s publicly available.u201d Microsoft released a hefty load of patches for supported products and services on Tuesday as part of its normal Patch Tuesday update cycle. Normally, patches for unsupported versions of Windows are available only for Microsoft customers on an expensive extended support contract. The companyu2019s decision to make all of those fixes public on Tuesday, it said, was prompted by an elevated risk for u201cdestructive cyber attacks.u201d u201cDue to the elevated risk for destructive cyber attacks at this time, we made the decision to take this action because applying these updates provides further protection against potential attacks with characteristics similar to WannaCrypt,u201d said Adrienne Hall, general manager of Microsoftu2019s Cyber Defense Operations Center. u201cIn reviewing the updates for this month, some vulnerabilities were identified that pose elevated risk of cyber attacks by government organizations, sometimes referred to as nation-state actors or other copycat organizations,u201d Hall said. u201cTo address this risk, today we are providing additional security updates along with our regular Update Tuesday service. These security updates are being made available tou00a0allu00a0customers, including those using older versions of Windows.u201d The ShadowBrokersu2019 leak in April unleashed a number of powerful Windows attacks into the public, allegedly belonging to the Equation Group, which is widely believed to the U.S. National Security Agency. Criminals and other nation states have already been leveraging the attacks to spread not only WannaCry ransomware, but also crytpocurrency mining utilities and other types of malware. Microsoft said customers should not expect this type of patch release for unsupported products to become the norm. Some experts have been critical of Microsot, which also made a similar update available for unsupported products hours after the WannaCry outbreak.   u201cIt was the right move by Microsoft,u201d Dillon said. u201cWe saw the damage it can cause with WannaCry. u201cSome of the most-used infrastructure, like SCADA systems, still run on XP whether theyu2019re getting patches or not. When you have critical things [running on XP], itu2019s a good thing they released, but it should only be looked at as a temporary solution and people should look to upgrade off of legacy versions.u201d Some third-party services such as 0patch have provided micro-patches for some of these vulnerabilities on legacy versions, even before the ShadowBrokers leak, Dillon said. u201cHopefully people who are running legacy systems have looked into other means of patching beside official fixes,u201d he said. u201cAlthough, this is great that thereu2019s an official fix.u201d The remaining two vulnerabilities are a lesser severity but should be patched nonetheless on legacy systems. EsteemAudit affects RDP, but only on XP and did not require a patch for modern versions of Windows. According to Microsoft, the vulnerability exists if the RDP server has smart card authentication enabled. EnglishmanDentist, meanwhile, is triggered because Windows OLE fails to properly validate user input, Microsoft said. u201cThereu2019s a whole wide assortment of exploits that were leaked, and weu2019ve only seen a few of them actively used at a mass scale. This is just plugging a hole before it becomes a bigger problem,u201d Dillon said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3834fa6cefc42b00294688" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Risk of u2018Destructive Cyber Attacksu2019 Prompts Microsoft to Update XP Again", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/risk-of-destructive-cyber-attacks-prompts-microsoft-to-update-xp-again/126235/", "Date" : "June 13, 2017 , 3:34 pm", "Article" : "Fearing destructive attacks precipitated by the availability of the nation-state exploits in the wild that spawned the WannaCry outbreak, Microsoft today announced that its Patch Tuesday updates would include fixes for older versions of Windows, including XP. The move is unusual and mimics a similar one made in the hours following WannaCryu2019s appearance on May 12 when hundreds of thousands of Windows machines worldwide were compromised and their data encrypted. Microsoft had pleaded with Windows admins to apply MS17-010, a security bulletin released in March, one month before the ShadowBrokers leaked a cadre of weaponized Windows exploits, but many did not take heed. Microsoft had to scramble as WannaCry made its way around the globe to release an emergency update late in the evening of May 12 for Windows XP and Windows 8 machines, easing any potential pain for unsupported versions of Windows; EternalBlue, the NSA exploit in question, targeted SMB running on Windows XP and Windows 7 computers. u201cDue to the elevated risk for destructive cyber attacks at this time, we made the decision to take this action because applying these updates provides further protection against potential attacks with characteristics similar to WannaCrypt,u201d said Adrienne Hall, general manager of Microsoftu2019s Cyber Defense Operations Center. u201cIn reviewing the updates for this month, some vulnerabilities were identified that pose elevated risk of cyber attacks by government organizations, sometimes referred to as nation-state actors or other copycat organizations,u201d Hall said. u201cTo address this risk, today we are providing additional security updates along with our regular Update Tuesday service. These security updates are being made available tou00a0allu00a0customers, including those using older versions of Windows.u201d Microsoft said that customers with automatic updates enabled are protected and would not have to take additional action to receive these updates. Microsoft said this is a rare decision and encouraged admins to apply the critical updates. u201cOur decision today to release these security updates for platforms not in extended support should not be viewed as a departure from our standard servicing policies,u201d said Eric Doerr, general manager of the Microsoft Security Response Center. u201cBased on an assessment of the current threat landscape by our security engineers, we made the decision to make updates available more broadly.u201d Since WannaCry, security experts have been warning Windows admins about the ferocity of the EternalBlue exploit and that it could be loaded with any sort of payload, including wiper malware, banking Trojans, or more ransomware. Attackers have already on two occasions used it to spread cryptocurrency mining utilities. Itu2019s unknown whether Microsoft was given any advance warning of another upcoming leak or if there are rumblings of another WannaCry-style attack. The ShadowBrokers promised monthly leaks of anything from Windows 10 exploits to mobile attacks to stolen nuclear and missile data in a new subscription service it promised to start next month. Microsoft also maintained that organizations should long ago have moved away from older, unsupported platforms such as XP. Windows 10, for example, contains many new mitigations that prevent exploits such as EternalBlue from successfully compromising computers. Opponents of todayu2019s moveu2014and of the May 12 emergency updateu2014contend that these concessions on Microsoftu2019s part to provide these types of updates will allow organizations to rationalize staying on unsupported versions of Windows. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3834fc6cefc42b00294689" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "ShadowBrokersu2019 Windows Zero-Days Already Patched", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/shadowbrokers-windows-zero-days-already-patched/125009/", "Date" : "April 17, 2017 , 2:06 pm", "Article" : "Hours after what was thought to be a damaging release of NSA hacking tools for Windows systems, Microsoft quelled some anxiety with a late-night statement on Friday that most of the vulnerabilities disclosed by the ShadowBrokers had already been patched. The biggest surprise was that the most recent updates came in March in a bulletin, MS17-010, addressing six critical remote code execution vulnerabilities in Windows Server Message Block (SMB). Two of the six (CVE-2017-0146 and CVE-2017-0147) were in possession of the Equation Group and exploited in EternalBlue, EternalChampion, EternalSynergy and EternalRomance, The March update was a highly anticipated set of patches since Microsoftu2019s February updates were a last-minute postponement with little explanation given at the time or since for the delay. Microsoft would not comment further after publishing a blog Friday reassuring users that the alleged zero-days in the ShadowBrokersu2019 dump had already been fixed. u201cWeu2019ve investigated and confirmed that the exploits disclosed by the Shadow Brokers have already been addressedu00a0by previous updates tou00a0our supported products,u201d Microsoft said in a statement. u201cCustomers with up-to-date software are already protected.u201d Microsoft did not, however, acknowledge who disclosed the respective vulnerabilities , which runs contrary to the majority of bugs patched on a monthly basis. This has given rise to a number of theories speculating that perhaps the government had privately disclosed the bugs to Microsoft through its Vulnerabilities Equities Process (VEP), that Microsoft may have paid for the bugs through a third party or directly to the ShadowBrokers, or that Microsoft followed breadcrumbs from a Jan. 8 dump that included the code names for some of the exploits leaked on Friday, including EternalRomance and EternalSynergy. Researcher Jacob Williams, aka MalwareJake, said there was evidence at the time indicating the existence of a SMB zero day. Williams also shared a price list from the January dump that he said could lend some credence to the possibility of a SMB 0day. u201cMost interesting perhaps is the fact that the exploits contain a possible SMB zero day exploit,u201d Williams wrote. u201cFor the price requested, one would hope it is a zero day. u00a0The price is far too high for an exploit for a known vulnerability.u201d The SANS Institute, meanwhile, looked at a post-exploitation communications channel called Double Pulsar, used by the EternalBlue SMB zero day. SANS said the channel uses the Transaction 2 Subcommand Extension (Trans2) feature in SMB for packet capture. From the SANS report: u201cIn packet 13 of the pcap, the system running the exploit sends a u201ctrans2 SESSION_SETUPu201d request to the victim. This happens before the actual exploit is sent. The intent of this request is to check if the system is already compromised. Infected or not, the system will respond with a u201cNot Implementedu201d message. But as part of the message, a u201cMultiplex IDu201d is returned that is 65 (0x41) for normal systemsu00a0and 81 (0x51) for infected systems. If a system is infected, then SMB can be used as a covert channel to exfiltrate data or launch remote commands. While the four SMB zero days are the attention-grabbers from Fridayu2019s dump of Windows tools, the remaining vulnerabilities data back prior to the 2006 release of Windows Vista. Most of the patched vulnerabilities target flaws in SMB, while others are in Windows Server and Kerberos. Three will not be patched, Microsoft said. u201cOf the three remaining exploits, u201cEnglishmanDentistu201d, u201cEsteemAuditu201d, and u201cExplodingCanu201d, none reproduces on supported platforms, which means that customers running Windows 7 and more recent versions of Windows or Exchange 2010 and newer versions of Exchange are not at risk,u201d Microsoft said. u201cCustomers still running prior versions of these products are encouraged to upgrade to a supported offering.u201d Fridayu2019s dump also included exploits used by the NSA to target two SWIFT Service Bureaus, outsourcing services used by banks to manage access and transactions on the SWIFT network. The SWIFT-related archives is called JEEPFLEA and contains credentials and the architecture data on EastNets, the Middle Eastu2019s largest SWIFT Service Bureau, researcher Matt Suiche said. Suiche explained these bank transactions are handled on an Oracle database running SWIFT software. The archive includes tools used by the NSA to take data from the Oracle installation, including a list of users and SWIFT message queries, Suiche said. u201cIn this case, if Shadow Brokers claims are indeed verified, it seems that the NSA sought tou00a0totally capture the backbone of international financial systemu00a0to have a Godu2019s eye into a SWIFT Service Bureauu200au2014u200aand potentiallyu00a0the entire SWIFT network,u201d said researcher Matt Suiche in a blog posted today explainingu00a0his analysisu00a0of the data dump. u201cThis would fit within standard procedure as a covert entity entrusted with covert actions that may or may not be legal in a technical sense.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835026cefc42b00294693" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "White House Releases VEP Disclosure Rules", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/white-house-releases-vep-disclosure-rules/128917/", "Date" : "November 16, 2017 , 2:19 pm", "Article" : "The U.S. government took steps toward offering more transparency into the Vulnerabilities Equities Process. On Wednesday it released of theu00a0u201cVulnerabilities Equities Policy and Processu201d (PDF) charter that outlines how the government will disclose cyber security flaws and when it will keep them secret. The release of the charter is viewed as a positive by critics and a step toward addressing private-sector concerns that the VEPu2019s framework is to secretive. u201cThe VEP is in dire need of more transparency and oversight, and we believe todayu2019s announcement makes significant progress towards these objectives,u201d said Heather West, Mozilla Corp. senior policy manager said in a statement Wednesday. The release of the 14-page document offers new insights into who makes up the VEPu2019s Equities Review Board and outlines how the government will publicly release information related to its vulnerability assessment work. The VEP is the internal process by which the government decides which software vulnerabilities in its possession it will disclose to vendors, and which it will hold on to and exploit for the purposes of intelligence gathering and supporting national security operations. u201cThe United States is a world leader when it comes to sophisticated processes and conversation on this topic, and no other nation in has created and run a process as advanced, meticulous, and transparent as ours,u201d wrote Rob Joyce, the White House cyber security coordinator in a post Wednesday announcing the charter. Disclosed Wednesday is the Equities Review Board Members, which include the Departments of Homeland Security, Energy, State, Treasury, Justice, Defense, and Commerce, as well as the CIA and the FBI. The National Security Agency is identified as the VEP and Equities Review Boardu2019s u201cexecutive secretariatu201d. According to the Vulnerabilities Equities Policy and Process charter, rules require an annual report that discloses information regarding the number of flaws discovered, retained and disclosed. If the VEP review board votes and agrees for a vulnerability to be disclosure, the private-sector company will be notified u201cwhen possibleu201d within 7 business days, according to the charter. The Equities Review Board is required to only make portions of the report public. And part of that annual review will also include decisions about the merits of retaining certain vulnerabilities. Ari Scwhartz, coordinator of the Coalition for Cybersecurity Policy and Law and former Obama administration senior director for cybersecurity, told Reuteru2019s news agency the move by the Trump administration was a u201ca major improvement.u201d He said the Obama administration was working toward similar transparency (PDF). VEP remains a controversial process. Iterations of the VEP have existed in some form since 2008. Its existence didnu2019t become widely known until 2016 when the Electronic Frontier Foundation filed a lawsuit under the Freedom of Information Act in order to gain access to the VEP. u201cEFF agrees that more transparency is a prerequisite to any debate about government use of vulnerabilities, so itu2019s gratifying to see the government take these affirmative steps,u201d wrote Andrew Crocker, a staff attorney with the EFF, in blog post Thursday. However, Crocker said their is still much to be critical of when it comes to VEP. u201cIn spite of these positive signs, we remain concerned about exceptions to the VEP. As written, agencies need not introduce certain vulnerabilities to the process at all if they are u2018subject to restrictions by partner agreements and sensitive operations.u2019 Even vulnerabilities which are part of the process can be explicitly restricted by non-disclosure agreements.u201d Ever since then, the VEP has been a lightning rod for government critics who have long claimed the process isnu2019t transparent enough and protects government security researchers whom critics claim stockpile discovered and purchased vulnerabilities for intelligence operations. VEP criticism hit a high watermark in 2014 when the federal government was accused of having advanced knowledge of the Heartbeed bug and not warning the public. Thatu2019s a claim the NSA denies. More recently, the VEP came under fire in the WannaCry ransomware outbreaks where a leaked NSA EternalBlue exploit was used in the attacks. At the time, the VEP was highly criticized. Microsoft President and chief legal officer Brad Smith slammed the U.S. government. u201cRepeatedly, exploits in the hands of governments have leaked into the public domain and caused widespread damage. An equivalent scenario with conventional weapons would be the U.S. military having some of its Tomahawk missiles stolen,u201d Smith said. Asked about the WannaCry attack in October at a Boston cybersecurity conference, Joyce said there was a u201cpatch from Microsoft available (for WannaCry) at the time, actually a couple months before the worm spread. So, the idea of withholding or releasing, in that case, the release was out there.u201d Still others in the private sector say the Trump administrationu2019s VEP charter is unsatisfactory. Willis McDonald, threat research manager at Core Security said the charter is a positive gesture but more transparency is needed. u201cStill too much of the process is cloaked in secrecy,u201d McDonald said. u201cIn some fashion, the private sector needs a seat at the table when it comes to zero days,u201d he said. McDonald said U.S. firms are important stakeholders in the VEP process and need to have appropriate participation and insights into the process of how the various federal agencies decide what flaws to keep secret. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835096cefc42b0029469d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Attackers Mining Cryptocurrency Using Exploits for Samba Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/attackers-mining-cryptocurrency-using-exploits-for-samba-vulnerability/126191/", "Date" : "June 12, 2017 , 9:34 am", "Article" : "Unknown attackers are using a recently patched vulnerability in Samba to spread a resource-intensive cryptocurrency mining utility. To date, the operation has netted the attackers just under $6,000 USD, but the number of compromised computers is growing, meaning that a significant number of Samba deployments on *NIX servers remain unpatched. The attack also demonstrates that the vulnerability in Samba, CVE-2017-7494, can extend EternalBlue-like attacks into Linux and UNIX environments. Samba is a software package that runs on Linux and UNIX servers and sets up file and print services over the SMB networking protocol, integrating those services into a Windows environment. The Samba vulnerability is similar to the SMB bug exploited on May 12 by attackers using the NSAu2019s EternalBlue exploit to spread WannaCry ransomware. Experts warned that EternalBlue can be fitted with any measure of attack, and they have a similar message about this flaw, which has been nicknamed SambaCry. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab said that one of their honeypots snagged on May 30 some of the first exploits targeting the Samba vulnerability. The payload was a two-headed threat: a Linux backdoor and a mining utility called Cpuminer that is leveraging the processing power of its victims to create Monero cryptocurrency. u201cThe attacked machine turns into a workhorse on a large farm, mining crypto-currency for the attackers,u201d Kaspersky Lab said in a report published on Securelist.com. The researchers said the attackersu2019 Monero wallet and pool address are hardcoded in the attack. u201cAccording to the log of the transactions, the attackers received their first crypto-coins on the very next day, on April 30th,u201d Kaspersky Lab said. u201cDuring the first day they gained about 1 XMR (about $55 according to the currency exchange rate for 08.06.2017), but during the last week they gained about 5 XMR per day. This means that the botnet of devices working for the profit of the attackers is growing.u201d  As of Friday, the attackers had mined about $6,000 USD, and Kaspersky Lab said it was unsure about the scale of the attack. Upon disclosure of the Samba vulnerability almost three weeks ago, Rapid7 said an internet scan using its ProjectSonaru00a0software found more than 104,000 endpoints running vulnerable versions of Samba over port 445, the SMB port. More than 92,000 are running versions of Samba that have no patches available. The vulnerability was introduced into Samba in 2010 in version 3.5.0; admins should upgrade to patched versions: 4.6.4, 4.5.10 and 4.4.14. Kaspersky Lab said the exploit is assembled as a Samba plugin, below. After running a checku2014a file containing random symbolsu2014to see whether the server has write permissions for the network, the attack must then brute-force the full path to dropped file. The most obvious paths are laid out in Samba instruction manuals, Kaspersky Lab said. Once it finds the path, the exploit is loaded and executed in the context of the Samba server process using the vulnerability; it runs only in virtual memory.  Kaspersky Lab said the attacks captured by its honeypot contained two files, a Linux backdoor and the miner. INAebsGB.sou00a0andu00a0cblRWuoCc.so respectively. INAebsGB.sou00a0is a reverse shell that connects to the port of the IP address specified by the owner giving it remote access to the shell. u201cAs a result, the attackers have an ability to execute remotely any shell-commands. They can literally do anything they want, from downloading and running any programs from the Internet, to deleting all the data from the victimu2019s computer,u201d Kaspersky Lab said, adding that this is similar to the SambaCry exploit in Metasploit. The other file, cblRWuoCc.so, downloads and executes Cpuminer from a domain registered on April 29. Coincidentally, another set of attackers used EternalBlue to spread a cryptocurrency miner called Adylkuzz for Monero on Windows machines. Monero is marketed as a privacy conscious cryptocurrency, and goes to great lengths to obfuscate its blockchain making it a challenge to trace any activity. The Adylkuzz attacks pre-date WannaCry with the first samples going back to April 24, researchers at Proofpoint said. More than 20 virtual private servers were scanning the internet for targets running port 445 exposed, the same port used by SMB traffic when connected to the internet, and the same port abused by EternalBlue and DoublePulsar. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38350c6cefc42b002946a4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Threatpost News Wrap, June 9, 2017", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/threatpost-news-wrap-june-9-2017/126163/", "Date" : "June 9, 2017 , 9:00 am", "Article" : "Mike Mimoso and Chris Brook discuss the news of the week, including how EternalBlue was ported to Windows 10, a Facebook phishing study, QakBot, and this weeku2019s Apple announcements.  Download:u00a0Threatpost_News_Wrap_June_9_2017.mp3 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835286cefc42b002946c4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Windows 10 Mitigations Make Future EternalBlue Attacks Difficult", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/windows-10-mitigations-make-future-eternalblue-attacks-difficult/126132/", "Date" : "June 7, 2017 , 3:25 pm", "Article" : "The emergence of a port of the EternalBlue exploit to Windows 10 signals that white-hat researchers have likely done what the NSA has already long ago accomplished. The leaked version of the powerful Windows SMB attack shared by the ShadowBrokers in April was built only to attack Windows XP and Windows 7 machines. The mysterious serial leakers of Equation Group offensive hacking tools may not have been able to get their hands on the intelligence agencyu2019s latest wares, but it likely exists. RiskSense senior security analyst Sean Dillon, one of the architects of the Windows 10 portu00a0(PDF download) of EternelBlue, said that the available code had undergone numerous revisions and improvements, indicating a constant development cycle. And given the effectiveness in gaining unauthenticated remote access on just about any Windows machine worldwide, this is an area where a spy agency would continue to invest. u201cItu2019s hard to tell when the ShadowBrokers actually got what they got,u201d Dillon said. The publicly known version of EternalBlue came from a 2013 disk, according to the documentation from the ShadowBrokers leak, when Windows 10 was probably still on the drawing board. u201cI imagine that whoever made this exploit has ported it to Windows 10 at this point.u201d The port, announced yesterday by researchers at RiskSense, is able to bypass some of the protections available in one particular branch of Windows 10 available today called the Current Branch for Business. Microsoft currently supports three release branches of Windows 10, including the Windows Insider Branch, Current Branch and the Current Branch for Business. Insider is a beta version and as features graduate from there, they move into the Current Branch. The Current Branch for Business is generally four months in arrears of the Current Branch in terms of features and critical updates. There is also a Long-Term Servicing Branch that maintains support policies in effect prior to Windows 10 and is generally recommended only for special purpose machines that donu2019t require new features or security updates. The most recent Windows Creators Update, codenamed Redstone 2, was released in April and it includes a number of memory-based attack mitigations that stop EternalBlue in its tracks. It builds upon Redstone 1, which was released in August 2016, which is likely what most home versions of Windows 10 are running. No known workarounds to those mitigations exist, meaning that any researcher who develops one could be in line for a $100,000 bounty from Microsoftu2019s Mitigation Bypass and Bounty for Defense. u201cRedstone 2 added more defenses than Redstone 1, and thatu2019s going to make future attacks of this class much more difficult,u201d Dillon said. Dillon did caution that Windows 10 enterprise machines joined to a domain are probably running on the Current Branch for Business, vulnerable to the RiskSense port. u201cIf you have a Windows 10 machine thatu2019s been joined to a domain, itu2019s probably on the Current Branch for Business which is missing the mitigations that donu2019t have known workarounds,u201d Dillon said. u201cSo all weu2019ve done is applied some workarounds that have been published in the past and fixed all of the offsets and structure changes that happened in order to exploit Windows 10,u201d Dillon said. u201cJust to show that it was possible.u201d Dillon reiterated that defenders should study EternalBlue and build detection rules for the exploit itself and not focus on the DoublePulsar kernel-level backdoor, which is cryptographically unsound and can be easily detected as a payload. u201cWith DoublePulsar, the industry was asleep at the wheel,u201d Dillon said, calling it a u201cred herringu201d for researchers. u201cWeu2019re hoping this time that people look at this and have a full understanding of this exploit in order to build defenses not only for this exploit but come up with creative ideas for other generic exploits of this type.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835346cefc42b002946d1" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "NSAu2019s EternalBlue Exploit Ported to Windows 10", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/nsas-eternalblue-exploit-ported-to-windows-10/126087/", "Date" : "June 6, 2017 , 10:55 am", "Article" : "The NSAu2019s EternalBlue exploit has been ported to Windows 10 by white hats, meaning that every unpatched version of the Microsoft operating system back to Windows XPu2014and likely earlieru2014can be affected by one of the most powerful attacks ever made public. Researchers at RiskSense, among the first to analyze EternalBlue, its DoublePulsar backdoor payload, and the NSAu2019s Fuzzbunch platform (think: Metasploit), said they would not release the source code for the Windows 10 port for some time, if ever. The proof of concept has been in the works since the ShadowBrokersu2019 April leak of Equation Group offensive hacking tools targeting Windows XP and Windows 7, as well as the development of a Metasploit module based on EternalBlue released two days after the WannaCry attacks. The best defense against EternalBlue, researchers maintain, is to apply the MS17-010 update provided in March by Microsoft. The researchers did today publish a reportu00a0(PDF download) explaining what was necessary to bring the NSA exploit to Windows 10 and examining the mitigations implemented by Microsoft that can keep these attacks in check moving forward. u201cWeu2019ve omitted certain details of the exploit chain that would only be useful to attackers and not so much for building defenses,u201d said senior research analyst Sean Dillon. u201cThe research is for the white-hat information security industry in order to increase the understanding and awareness of these exploits so that new techniques can be developed that prevent this and future attacks. This helps defenders better understand the exploit chain so that they can build defenses for the exploit rather than the payload.u201d The available Metasploit module, which is completely separate from the new Windows 10 port, is a stripped down version of EternalBlue that reduced the amount of network traffic involved, and as a result, many of the intrusion detection system rules created since the leak and recommended by security companies and the U.S. government could be bypassed. It also removes the DoublePulsar backdoor, which Dillon said many security companies paid too much unnecessary attention to. DoublePulsar is a kernel-level exploit dropped by all of the exploits in the Fuzzbunch platform. u201cThe DoublePulsar backdoor is kind of a red herring for researchers and defenders to focus on,u201d Dillon said. u201cWe demonstrated that by creating a new payload that can load malware directly without having to first install the DoublePulsar backdoor. So people looking to defend against these attacks in the future should not focus solely on DoublePulsar. Focus on what parts of the exploit we can detect and block.u201d The new port targets Windows 10 x64 version 1511, which was released in November and was code-named Threshold 2, still supported in the Windows Current Branch for Business. The researchers were able to bypass mitigations introduced in Windows 10 that are not present in Windows XP, 7 or 8 and defeat EternalBlue bypasses for DEP and ASLR. u201cTo port to Windows 10, we had to create a new bypass for DEP,u201d Dillon said. The RiskSense report goes into painstaking detail about the new attack, including a new payload replacing DoublePulsar, which Dillon said is cryptographically insecure and allows anyone to load secondary malware, which is what happened with WannaCry. RiskSenseu2019s new payload is an Asynchronous Procedure Call (APC) that allows user-mode payloads to be executed without the backdoor. u201cAn APC can u2018borrowu2019 a process thread that is in an idle Alertable state, and while it relies on structures whose offsets change between versions of Microsoft Windows, it is one of the most reliable and easiest ways to exit kernel mode and enter user mode,u201d RiskSense said in its report. The ShadowBrokersu2019 leaks have been snapshots of the NSAu2019s offensive capabilities, and rarely an image of their current arsenal. Itu2019s likely that by now the NSA has a Windows 10 version of EternalBlue, but until today, such an option hasnu2019t been available to defenders. In the meantime, EternalBlue remains one of the most complex attacks made public, one that worried NSA insiders should it ever be stolen and/or leaked; the NSA is believed to have alerted Microsoft about the impending ShadowBrokersu2019 leak giving the company time to build, test and deploy MS17-010 one month before the April leak. u201cThere are really only a handful of people who could have written the original EternalBlue exploit, but now that itu2019s out there and you can study the original exploit and the techniques used, it opens the door for many more amateur-type hackers to understand whatu2019s going on,u201d Dillon said. u201cItu2019s really easy to use a buffer overflow to cause a crash. Itu2019s harder to get code execution. So, whoever wrote the original exploits did a lot of experimentation to find the best path to turn that crash into code execution. Theyu2019ve done all the hard work, so now itu2019s about whatu2019s changed between different versions of Windows to fix it up.u201d Dillon said EternalBlueu2019s capability to provide attackers with an instant remote unauthenticated Windows code execution attack is the best type of exploit at a hackeru2019s disposal. u201cThey definitely broke a lot of new ground with the exploit. When we added the targets of the original exploit to Metasploit, there was a lot of code that needed to be added to Metasploit to get it up to par with being able to support a remote kernel exploit that targets x64,u201d Dillon said, adding that the original exploit targets x86 also, calling that feat u201calmost miraculous. u201cYouu2019re talking about a heap-spray attack on the Windows kernel. Heap spray attacks are probably one of the most esoteric types of exploitation and this is for Windows, which does not have source code available,u201d Dillon said. u201cPerforming a similar heap spray on Linux is difficult, but easier than this. A lot of work went into this.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38353c6cefc42b002946df" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Cryptomining Gold Rush: One Gang Rakes In $7M Over 6 Months", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cryptomining-gold-rush-one-gang-rakes-in-7m-over-6-months/130232/", "Date" : "March 5, 2018 , 5:00 am", "Article" : "The bloom is on the criminal cryptomining of computer resources and the reason is obvious u2013 itu2019s lucrative. One cryptomining gang tracked by researchers over the past six months minted $7 million with the help of 10,000 computers infected with mining malware. The rise of malicious cryptomining isnu2019t a shocker to anyone following cybersecurity. However, what is startling is the rise in the use of sophisticated and complex techniques that some groups now use. Many cryptomining groups have adopted hacking techniques and tools typically only seen by sophisticated APT threat actors. In a report released Monday by Kaspersky Lab, researchers profiled three groups of cryptominers that represent this new breed cryptojacking criminals. Following the same huge growth arc as ransomware, these groups are quieter by nature and unlike in-your-face ransomware bullies, are more apt to quietly leach CPU cycles while remaining hidden on a client PC or inside the datacenter, said Anton Ivanov, a researcher at Kaspersky Lab. Researchers estimate 2.7 million users were attacked by malicious miners in 2017. That is up 50 percent from 2016 (1.87 million), according to the report that is planned to be presented later this week at Kasperskyu2019s annual Security Analyst Summit. Individuals and businesses are becoming cryptojacking u201cvictims as a result of adware, cracked games and pirated software used by cybercriminals to secretly infect their PCs,u201d researcher authors note. u201cAnother approach used was web mining through a special (JavaScript) code located in an infected web page. The most widely used web miner was Coinhive, discovered on many popular websites,u201d researchers said.  10,000-Strong Botnet Built For Cryptojacking Identified only as Group One, this gang of cryptojackers profiled by Kaspersky commanded a botnet of about 10,000 machines ranging from consumer to corporate PCs and servers that were stretched across the globe. The only prerequisite for targeted systems, researchers said, is that they had unpatched vulnerabilities susceptible to exploits such as the EternalBlue. u201cThey are mining Monero and using their own custom cryptocurrency miners,u201d Ivanov said. u201cAnd for persistence, they are using sophisticated techniques such as process hollowing and manipulating Windowsu2019 system Task Scheduler.u201d Process Hollowing is when an attacker creates a process in a suspended state and later replaces the process image with one that the attacker wants to remain hidden. Kaspersky said, that this is the first time it has seen this technique used in mining attacks. Abusing the Windowsu2019 Task Scheduler is also a way to cloak malicious software on computers. In similar attacks using the Task Scheduler technique, mining software is cloaked on targeted computers by the attacker who gives malicious miner programs benign names of typical Windows start-up applications such as diskmngr.exe, taskmngr.exe and svchost.exe. The mining software is then set to launch each time a computer starts via modifications made to the computeru2019s Task Scheduler or auto-run registry keys. Criminals Scout Out Victims Ahead of Attacks The second group of cryptomining hackers differentiate themselves by going to great lengths to specifically target types of users with Monero miners. An examination of the malware used by Group Two, by Kaspersky, revealed hard-coded information in the Power Shell scripts. They contained specific information pertaining to the endpoints targeted in the attacks. Researchers said this indicates prior access to the targeted networks. u201cItu2019s clear the threat actors had conducted reconnaissance on victims to determine who to target and who not to target with miners within an organization,u201d Ivanov said. This helps to avoid planting cryptocurrency malware on a system administrator or security officeru2019s computers. u201cThis type of person could easily detect something is wrong very quickly,u201d he said. This group used a private mining pool, so it is impossible to understand how much Monero coins they have made. u201cAs this miner targets huge organizations and uses sophisticated techniques, it makes us believe that we can compare it with WannaMine miner which earned $3 million,u201d Ivanov said. For Sale: Miner Criminal crypto miners behind Group Three are unique because they didnu2019t use the build kits they made, only sold them online. According to the Kaspersky report, the kits were based on a custom script that mined Monero advertised on the Dark Web and places such as private Telegram channels geared toward hackers. The build kits offers a would-be cryptojacker full customization of the malicious mining software from designating what percentage of the CPU to tax to going dormant when the victim launches a process-intensive game, so as to avoid detection. u201cThese kits are built to exist in systems for a long time. For a regular user it will be very hard for them to realize that they got infected,u201d the researcher said. In its report, researchers said once-dominant ransomware attacks are quickly being usurped by cryptocurrency malware attacks. u201cThis is confirmed by our statistics, which show a steady growth of miners throughout the year,u201d the report stated. u201cRansomware hackers were using the same tricks when they were on the rise,u201d according to the report. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38353f6cefc42b002946e3" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "EternalBlue Exploit Spreading Gh0st RAT, Nitol", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/eternalblue-exploit-spreading-gh0st-rat-nitol/126052/", "Date" : "June 2, 2017 , 2:32 pm", "Article" : "EternalBlue, the exploit used in the WannaCry ransomware outbreak, is now being leveraged to distribute the Nitol backdooru00a0and Gh0st RAT malware. Security researchers at FireEye said, just as WannaCry criminals did, threat actors are leveraging the same Microsoft Server Message Block (SMB) protocol vulnerability (MS017-010). u201cWe observed lab machines vulnerable to the SMB exploit were attacked by a threat actor using the EternalBlue exploit to gain shell access to the machine,u201d wrote co-authors Ali Islam, Christopher Glyer and Barry Vengerik in a FireEye report posted Friday. Gh0st RAT is a Trojan that has targeted the Windows platform for years. It has pimarily been a nation-state tool used in APT attacks against government agencies, activists and other political targets. Gh0st recently made headlines when instances of the RAT were found by the Shodan tool calledu00a0Malware Hunter, a new crawler designed to find command and control servers. According to FireEye, Backdoor.Nitol has been linked to campaigns involving a remote code execution vulnerability using the ADODB.Stream ActiveX Object that affects older versions of Internet Explorer. In the past, Backdoor.Nitol and Gh0st have also beenu00a0delivered via exploitation of the CVE-2014-6332 vulnerability and in spam campaigns that target PowerShell commands, researchers said. u201cThe initial exploit technique used at the SMB level (by Backdoor.Nitol and Gh0st) is similar to what we have been seen in WannaCry campaigns; however, once a machine is successfully infected, this particular attack opens a shell to write instructions into a VBScript file and then executes it to fetch the payload on another server,u201d researchers wrote. Researchers said they have seen the same EternalBlue and VBScript combination used to distribute Gh0st RAT in Singapore and Backdoor.Nitol in the South Asia region. The analysis of how Backdoor.Nitol and Gh0st exploit Windows follows the threat actors behind WannaCry u2013 attackers send specially crafted messages to a Microsoft SMBv1 server. u201cThe attacker echoes instructions into a new u20181.vbsu2019 file to be executed later.u00a0 These instructions fetch theu00a0 payload u2018taskmgr.exeu2019 from another server in a synchronous call.u00a0 This action creates an ActiveX object ADODB.Stream, which allows reading the file coming from the server and writes the result of the binary data in a stream,u201d researchers said. Ultimately, u201cthe u20181.vbsu2019 executes through a command-line version of the Windows Script Host which deletes the vbs file. Once the executable is fetched and saved, the attacker uses a shell to launch the backdoor from the saved location,u201d researchers said. Next, the Nitol or Gh0st RAT binary is downloaded. u201cThe addition of the EternalBlue exploit to Metasploit has made it easy for threat actors to exploit these vulnerabilities. In the coming weeks and months, we expect to see more attackers leveraging these vulnerabilities and to spread such infections with different payloads,u201d researchers said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38354b6cefc42b002946f2" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "WikiLeaks Dumps CIA Patient Zero Windows Implant", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/wikileaks-dumps-cia-patient-zero-windows-implant/126036/", "Date" : "June 2, 2017 , 9:00 am", "Article" : "WikiLeaks on Thursday made public a CIA implant that is used to turn a Windows file server into a malware distribution point on the local network. The documents describing the tool, Pandemic, explain how remote machines on the local network trying to download and-or execute documents from the file server over SMB are infected with u201creplacementu201d documents on the fly. The implant swaps out the document with a Trojanized version while itu2019s in transit, never touching the original document on the file server. The documentation that was leaked yesterday spans from January 2014 to April 2014 and is for versions 1.0 and 1.1. The leaks are just the latest CIA tools to be dumped on the internet by the polarizing whistleblower outfit, which has for every Friday since Marchu2014save last weeku2014put CIA documents and attacks online for public consumption. In between are the ShadowBrokers pouring more gasoline on this information-based firestorm promising monthly leaks of not only NSA-built exploits targeting browsers, handsets and Windows 10 computers, but also stolen data allegedly from China, Iran, Russia and North Koreau2019s nuclear and missile programs. The ShadowBrokers have already leaked their share of Windows-based exploits and vulnerabilities, the most worrisome being an April disclosure of SMB flaws and attacks that had been patched by Microsoft in March after it was allegedly tipped off by the NSA. One of those SMB exploits, EternalBlue, was of course used to launch and spread the WannaCry ransomware attacks three weeks ago today. The ShadowBrokers also had their turn in the spotlight this week announcing a pricing structure and delivery schedule for its so-called Monthly Dump Service. The Pandemic leak does not explain what the CIAu2019s initial infection vector is, but does describe it as a persistent implant. u201cAs the name suggests, a single computer on a local network with shared drives that is infected with the u2018Pandemicu2019 implant will act like a u2018Patient Zerou2019 in the spread of a disease,u201du00a0WikiLeaks said in its summary description. u201cu2018Pandemicu2019 targets remote users by replacing application code on-the-fly with a Trojaned version if the program is retrieved from the infected machine.u201d The key to evading detection is its ability to modify or replace requested files in transit, hiding its activity by never touching the original file. The new attack then executes only on the machine requesting the file. Version 1.1 of Pandemic, according to the CIAu2019s documentation, can target and replace up to 20 different files with a maximum size of 800MB for a single replacement file. u201cIt will infect remote computers if the user executes programs stored on the pandemic file server,u201d WikiLeaks said. u201cAlthough not explicitly stated in the documents, it seems technically feasible that remote computers that provide file shares themselves become new pandemic file servers on the local network to reach new targets.u201d The CIA describes Pandemic as a tool that runs as kernel shellcode that installs a file system filter driver. The driver is used to replace a file with a payload when a user on the local network accesses the file over SMB. u201cThe goal of Pandemic is to be installed on a machine where the remote users use SMB to download/execute PE (portable executable) files,u201d the documentation says. u201cUsers that are targeted by Pandemic, and use SMB to download the targeted file, will receive the u2018replacementu2019 file.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835596cefc42b00294709" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Windows Search Bug Worth Watching, and Squashing", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/windows-search-bug-worth-watching-and-squashing/127434/", "Date" : "August 14, 2017 , 3:22 pm", "Article" : "Between Conficker and WannaCry, there was a nearly a decade when network worms went dark. WannaCry changed that, riding into enterprises globally on the coattails of a leaked nation-state exploit. In the months since the May 12 ransomware attack, vendors, researchers and network admins have been on edge looking in corners and under couches for wormable bugs. Last weeku2019s Patch Tuesday updates from Microsoft included a critical Windows Search vulnerability that, in some corners, has raised eyebrows as to whether this is the next big one. All the pieces are there for someone to build a wormable exploit, but can it be done in a similar timeframe to WannaCry, and without an available NSA exploit, for example? The bug in Microsoftu2019s desktop search utility (CVE-2017-8620), allows an attacker to elevate privileges and remotely run arbitrary code. It affects all supported versions of Windows and Windows Server, and it can leverage SMB to remotely trigger the vulnerability. SMB is the same attack vector used in the WannaCry and NotPetya attacks, giving an already hyper-sensitive user base more anxiety. The urgency to patch is there just as it was with MS17-010, which addressed the SMBv1 bugs exploited by EternalBlue, which was leaked by the ShadowBrokers in April one month after patches were made available. As the industry learned with WannaCry, patching vigilance still isnu2019t up to par, especially for organizations dependent on legacy, and/or unsupported systems. Just as many failed to deploy the SMB patches in time, experts are wondering if these same factors are colluding again with the Windows Search bug. u201cAt this point, itu2019s difficult to determine if this will lead to a major worm, there are many temporal and environmental factors that will play into that, and things can often change rapidly,u201d said Sean Dillon, senior researcher at RiskSense and one of the first to dissect the EternalBlue attack. u201cIt is always a good idea to apply patches as soon as possible, or at least the workarounds which Microsoft has provided for this vulnerability. As with EternalBlue, which took advantage of a legacy SMB operation (and in a deprecated version of the protocol), most customers are probably not actively using the features that are being exploited and should take the steps to disable them if the patch cannot be immediately applied for whatever reason.u201d Microsoft recommends disabling the WSearch service as a temporary mitigation for CVE-2017-8620. Check Point Software Technologies, meanwhile, echoes calls to patch this vulnerability immediately, but it also published an alarmist blog on Friday, calling this bug the next WannaCry. u201cBasically, the vulnerability was found in a place that allows you to spread it further by using Microsoft services. If you have access to one computer on a network, you can send this, without any need for user interaction, through the entire network,u201d said Daniel Padon, a researcher at Check Point. u201cThis is very similar to the one used by WannaCry. Itu2019s possible to assume that because the previous vulnerability was found, it exposed these types of attacks; that was the incentive to look for additional attacks of the same kind.u201d Padon called the bug interesting from a technical perspective and cautioned it has a large potential impact. u201cThe real story for us is that this is already patched,u201d Padon said. u201cI woud bet if we checked now after the patch has been released to see how many users acutally patched, I would be surprised if more than 10 percent didu2014and thatu2019s being generous. These vulnerabilities are still affecting people because security isnu2019t up to speed with attacks.u201d Dillon said that because the vulnerability allows for a remote network attack without a requirement in place for special privileges, that the ingredients are present for a successful worm. u201cThe attack complexity is rated as difficult to exploit, as was EternalBlue. Only a handful of people on the planet have enough knowledge, skill, and patience to have written a reliable exploit in a reasonable time for any of the vulnerabilities in MS17-010u2026 if the Shadow Brokers dump had not occurred,u201d Dillon said. u201cThat certainly lowered the bar for entry to alarmable levels. This Windows search exploit seems like it should be much more straightforward to exploit.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835656cefc42b0029471f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "One Year After WannaCry: A Fundamentally Changed Threat Landscape", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/one-year-after-wannacry-a-fundamentally-changed-threat-landscape/132047/", "Date" : "May 17, 2018 , 11:25 am", "Article" : "Itu2019s been one year this week since the ransomware known as WannaCry infected more than 200,000 machines in 150 countries, causing billions of dollars in damages and grinding global business to a halt. The speed and scale of the attack u2013 helped along by leaked National Security Agency hacking tools u2013 was obviously notable, but itu2019s WannaCryu2019s legacy that resonates today. The cyber-landscape has fundamentally changed, with threat actors increasing almost exponentially in their capabilities, sophistication and ambition. u201cWannaCry changed the cybersecurity game, not just through its outsized impact; it made waves because of its outsized influence on the cyber-threat landscape,u201d Check Point researchers said in a blog breaking down the implications. u201cMarking a turning point in the cybersecurity environment, we were looking at the first global-scaled, multi-vectored cyberattack powered by state-sponsored tools. WannaCry marked a new generationu2026of cyberattacks.u201d In the year since WannaCry, ransomware has given way to cryptomining as the go-to payload for cybercriminals. Cryptojacking in fact increased 8,500 percent in the last quarter of 2017, and made up 16 percent of all online attacks, according to Juniper Networks analysis. But ransomware isnu2019t waning: Numbers from Avast show that since the original attack, there have been more than 176 million attempted new WannaCry attacks globally. We talked to several security researchers about whatu2019s changed in the past year. Arms Race So what does u201cfundamental changeu201d actually mean? For one, the use of nation-state-developed hacking tools has become widespread. WannaCry was the direct result of the Shadow Brokers hacker group stealing and then leaking exploits developed by the NSA. One of them, EternalBlue, was used in WannaCry, and just six weeks after that, NotPetya used the same exploit in its infamous attack. The genie was out of the bottle, and quickly, too. EternalBlue and additional weapons from the trove have cropped up everywhere since then, in multiple campaigns spreading banking trojans, other kinds of ransomware and, this year, cryptomining code. Just recently, the SamSam ransomware attack that shut down the city of Atlanta and cost it $5 million in damages and clean-up costs relied on DoublePulsar u2013 another NSA-developed exploit in use now across the internet. u201cIn the past, cybercriminals traditionally used simplistic, homegrown tools for their hacking activities,u201d Check Point researchers noted. u201cWannaCry marked the shift toward using military-grade weapons, hacking tools that are powerful enough for a national cyber-defense agency to use on international cyber-warfare.u201d Bigger, Multi-Vector Attacks As befits the use of industrial-strength tools, WannaCry also demonstrated the potential for severe, large-scale cyber-attacks. Campaigns today go after ever-greater paydays, and the space is attracting well-funded criminal organizations looking to develop lucrative hacking operations. The surge in ransomware outlines this: Check Point analysis shows that in 2015, ransomware attacks caused $325 million in damage. Last year, attacks were up 15-fold, costing $5 billion in damages. u201cEven the most sophisticated of these ransomware attacks emerging today are just the tip of the spear,u201d Derek Manky, global security strategist at Fortinetu2019s FortiGuard Labs, told Threatpost. u201cCybercriminals are adopting new attack strategies, such as those used by Hajime and Hide-and-Seek, to accelerate both the scale and success of attacks.u201d In tandem with this, there has been a sea-change in attack vectors. WannaCry established the concept of the u201cransomwormu201d u2013 code thatu2019s able to spread through cloud networks, remote office servers and network endpoints alike, needing only one entry point in order to infect the entire system. u201cThis multi-level approach allowed WannaCry to easily overwhelm companies that followed the usual security strategy of picking their favorite product from different vendors for each entry point,u201d Check Point researchers said. However, since then, there has been an evolution towards more sophisticated variations of this approach. u201cThese new variants are transitioning away from traditional ransomworm-based attacks, which require constant communication back to their controller, and replacing them with automated, self-learning strategies, potentially turning malicious ransomworms into u2018ransom-swarmsu2019,u201d Manky said. u201cFuture attacks are likely to leverage things like swarm intelligence to take humans out of the loop entirely in order to accelerate attacks to digital speeds.u201d He added, u201cCybercriminals have been using an attack-on-all-fronts strategy that has been especially effective.u201d A Physical Threat The stakes are higher than ever before as well: WannaCry demonstrated that cyberattacks can introduce real, physical risks into the equation. It famously hit Britainu2019s National Health Service (NHS), and attacked a wealth of medical devices, like medical imaging machines. u201cPatients in the U.K. lost valuable medical response time (and it is very likely that one could honestly say WannaCry ended up causing mortal harm to some),u201d Bob Rudis, chief security data scientist at Rapid7, told Threatpost. Rapid7 research recently determined that WannaCry was still the sixth most-prevalent threat in the first quarter of 2018. u201cWannaCry and NotPetya both ended up causing hundreds of millions of dollars in damages to medical production lines and other business processes.u201d The ability to issue an epic beat-down on connected devices beyond the PC has become part of the new normal thanks to WannaCry u2013 a state of affairs thatu2019s set to worsen. Brian NeSmith, CEO and co-founder at Arctic Wolf Networks, told us that, essentially, every company and every device is a target. u201cFor industries like healthcare, ransomware puts the lives of people at risk,u201d he said. u201cRansomware is likely to evolve and expand to IoT devices and wreak even more havoc. Today, the focus is on PCs, but tomorrow, everything from machinery, power control systems, industrial sensors and even thermostats will be targets. In the case of machinery, it could impact the safety and well-being of workers, dramatically increasing the stakes beyond just the ransom money.u201d Increased Awareness WannaCryu2019s legacy is not all bad news: the event has also increased cyber-awareness, and thatu2019s never a bad thing. u201cThe biggest impact WannaCry had (in the UK at least) was to take ransomware from the domain of IT and security professionals to the boardroom, the newsroom and Parliament,u201d Oscar Arean, technical operations manager at Databarracks, told us. u201cParticularly in small and medium-sized enterprises, there hasnu2019t been adequate investment in awareness, and thereu2019s been a lax attitude to the risks of running systems beyond end-of-life. The benefit of WannaCry is that now, when an IT manager at a small business asks for budget for systems upgrades from their CFO and the board u2013 they can point to the example of the NHS to justify the expense.u201d Rishi Bhargava, co-founder at Demisto, told Threatpost that the awareness level was particularly raised in healthcare environments. u201cWannaCry was unique because this was the first large ransomware attack targeted at the healthcare vertical and affected not only computers, but also many medical devices like MRI machines,u201d Bhargava said via email. u201cOverall, WannaCry did not fundamentally change the security tools or the approaches or peopleu2019s perception, but it did raise awareness of the best practices in healthcare organizations.u201d As Much as Things Changeu2026 Despite better awareness, poor security practices (including a lack of simple patch updates) continue to plague companies. Overall, a Check Point survey found that just 3 percent of U.S. organizations are prepared for another WannaCry-like attack. u201cCompanies need to make sure they are doing the basics,u201d NeSmith said. u201cDeploy patches, update antivirus clients and train employees on security best practices. The defense strategy needs to define how a ransomware infection will be contained and how it will be remediated. This will require a smooth process for detection, triage and execution of the remediation plan.u201d Patching works, after all. u201cWhile WannaCry tore through organizations like the NHS, companies that kept their systems updated with the latest patches, performed backups and took proactive security measures emerged unscathed,u201d Ken Spinner, vice president of global field engineering at Varonis, told Threatpost. u201cPlenty of others heard the wake-up call but hit the u2018snoozeu2019 button. Hope is not a strategy to prevent the next major cyberattack from hitting your company, yet some are mistaking good luck for sound preparation and effort.u201d Mounir Hahad, head of Juniper Threat Labs at Juniper Networks, laid out the basic best practices for us: patch; back up critical data and test your backups regularly; segment the network and make sure access to different segments is offered only on a business need; do not give admin privileges to all users if not needed; mount remote file systems on a system only if needed; and disable SMBv1 and make sure SMBv2 is not exposed to the internet. SMB, which is Microsoftu2019s file-sharing system, contains the vulnerability that EternalBlue, EternalRomance and other NSA tools exploit. u201cEvery board of directors should be asking its CISO about the companyu2019s backup strategy,u201d Hahad told Threatpost, adding that there are also 2.3 million observable devices left out there with SMBv1 exposed to the internet. u201cA ransomware attack should be a blip on the radar that wastes peopleu2019s time to restore from backups, not a week-long debacle of trying to restore service and deciding whether to pay the ransom or not.u201d He added, u201cThe same mitigation techniques that have been recommended over and over again are still relevant and effective to minimize the impacts of a ransomware attack, but it comes down to actually implementing them.u201d u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38357a6cefc42b00294731" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Microsoft Patches Critical Windows Search Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-patches-critical-windows-search-vulnerability/127303/", "Date" : "August 8, 2017 , 5:21 pm", "Article" : "Microsoft patched more than two dozen remote code execution vulnerabilities today, many of them rated critical. One was a RCE bug thatu00a0allowed an attacker to take complete control of a server or workstation via Windows Search. The fixes were part of Microsoftu2019s August Patch Tuesday update that included 48 patches in all, 25 of them critical,u00a0two publicly known prior to release and one with a publicly available proof of concept.u00a0None of the vulnerabilities are currently being exploited in the wild, Microsoft said. The most serious RCE vulnerability (CVE-2017-8620) is related to how Windows Search handles objects in memory. u201cAn attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could take control of the affected system,u201d Microsoft wrote. Exploiting the Windows Search vulnerability requires an adversary to send a specially crafted message to the Windows Search service. u201cAdditionally, in an enterprise scenario, a remote unauthenticated attacker could remotely trigger the vulnerability through an SMB connection and then take control of a target computer,u201d said Microsoft. This critical bug affects several versions of Windows 10, Windows Server 2012 and Windows Server 2016. u201cWhile an exploit against this vulnerability can leverage SMB as an attack vector, this is not a vulnerability in SMB itself, and is not related to the recent SMB vulnerabilities leveraged by EternalBlue, WannaCry, and Petya,u201d wrote Jimmy Graham, director of product management at Qualys, in a post. A second RCE (rated important) is tied to Windows Hyper-V (CVE-2017-8664) and exists when a host server fails to properly validate input from an authenticated user on a guest operating system. u201cAn attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could execute arbitrary code on the host operating system,u201d Microsoft said. To exploit the vulnerability all an attacker needs to do is run a malicious application on a guest OS that could cause the Hyper-V host operating system to execute the arbitrary code. u201cAlthough neither is publicly known nor actively exploited, this bug certainly warrants extra attention,u201d wrote Zero Day Initiative in its Patch Tuesday commentary. u201cBack at the 2017u00a0Pwn2Ownu00a0competition, a Hyper-V escape like this one would have earned the contestant $100,000.u201d In all, Microsoft patched 27 remote code execution vulnerabilities as part of its August batch of fixes. The two bugs previously known were a Windows Subsystem for Linux denial of service vulnerability (CVE-2017-8627) and a Windows Error Reporting elevation of privilege vulnerability (CVE-2017-8633) u2013 both rated as important. u201cThis is the first time we have seen vulnerabilities patched on the Linux Subsystem under Windows. Since its introduction, it was only a matter of time andu00a0CVE-2017-8627 (DoS) andu00a0CVE-2017-8622 (privilege escalation) are the first of their kind,u201d said Bobby McKeown, senior manager of engineering, Rapid7. Qualys notes 20 of Augustu2019s critical vulnerabilities are tied to the Windowsu2019 Scripting Engine, which can impact both Edge and IE and Microsoft Office. It notes these type vulnerabilities should be u201cconsidered for prioritizing for workstation-type systems that use email and access the internet via a browser.u201d u201cAlso of note is a vulnerability in the Windows Font Engine,u00a0CVE-2017-8691. This vulnerability can also be exploited through a browser. For systems running Windows 10 and Microsoft Edge, CVE-2017-0293 impacts the PDF viewer functionality,u201d Qualys said. The August patches did not include an important Microsoft security update also issued today that included the removal of WoSign and StartCom certificates in Windows 10. u201cMicrosoft will begin the natural deprecation of WoSign and StartCom certificates by setting a u2018NotBeforeu2019 date of 26 September 2017. This means all existing certificates will continue to function until they self-expire. Windows 10 will not trust any new certificates from these CAs after September 2017,u201d according to Microsoft. The August Patch Tuesday fixes also donu2019t include a fix to stop a SMBLoris attack, which is a denial of service attack against systems that have port 445 and the SMB client exposed. Last month, the vulnerability was disclosed during DEF CON. Microsoft has said it will not patch the vulnerability, which allows an attacker to remotely crash a Windows server with relative ease. Earlier today, Adobe released patches covering 67 vulnerabilities, 43 of which are critical. Adobe Acrobat and Reader made up the bulk of the vulnerabilities, with two related to Adobe Flash. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835c46cefc42b0029478c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Patches Pending for Medical Devices Hit By WannaCry", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/patches-pending-for-medical-devices-hit-by-wannacry/125758/", "Date" : "May 18, 2017 , 10:18 am", "Article" : "It was initially thought just Windows machines were vulnerable but it probably shouldnu2019t come as a surprise that medical devices and industrial control systems were subjected tou00a0the perils of this weekendu2019s WannaCry ransomware outburstu00a0as well. Over the past few days the Department of Homeland Securityu2019s Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT) along with several medical device vendors have begun warning consumers of the risk the malware poses and mitigations that should be implemented by hospitals and factories thatu00a0deploy software on vulnerable versions of Windows with SMBv1 enabled. WannaCry, which wended its way through the internetu00a0on Friday, exploits EternalBlue, a remote code execution attack that targets a patched SMBv1 vulnerability in Windows.u00a0A patch for the vulnerability, leaked in April by the ShadowBrokers, was pushed by Microsoft in March but apparently has not been appliedu00a0by many u2013 including hospital IT administrators. Siemens began warning customers on Tuesday that some of its Healthineers products u2013 a line of devices deployed in clinicalu00a0environments u2013 are affected by the SMBv1 vulnerabilities behind theu00a0WannaCry campaign. In particular, all versions of the companyu2019s Multi-Modality Workplaceu00a0(.PDF) (MMWP)u2013 an imaging platform found in hospital radiology departments, and all versions of the companyu2019s MAGNETOM MRI Systemsu00a0(.PDF) u2013 massive magnetic resonance tubes used for imaging in hospitals, are vulnerable, Siemens said.  The company issued au00a0security bulletinu00a0and advisories for both products on Tuesday. Siemens stressed in the bulletin the exploitability of the devices is largely dependent on the way the products are configured and deployed, but that itu2019s still preparing updates for the products. In the meantime the company is encouraging customers to isolate products that listen on the TCP ports 139, 445 and 3389. Researchers over the past several days have observed WannaCry campaigns u2013 in addition to cryptocurrency miner campaigns u2013u00a0scanning the internet for targets with port 445 exposed u2013 a practice generally frowned upon and discouraged by Microsoft. Still, Rapid7 said on Wednesday it saw more than 800,00 devices running Windows exposing SMB over port 445. In addition to disabling the port, Siemens also asked users to make an effort to isolate affected products within their respective network segment, and ensure they have backups and system restoration procedures in place. The companyu2019s recommendations echoed sentiments made by experts multiple times this week, including advocatingu00a0patching vulnerable machines, amd making sure offline backups are secure and stored offline Siemens isnu2019t the only medical device company planning to push patches to mitigate further WannaCry infections. HITRUST, the Health Information Trust Alliance, reported on Monday that medical devices manufactured by the German conglomerate Bayer were also implicated by WannaCry over the weekend. HITRUSTu2019s report suggests that Siemens devices, as the forthcoming patches would suggest, were implicated as well. The company is in the middle of prepping a patch for Windows-based devices, purportedly radiology systems, that were also hit by the ransomware. A spokesperson from the company told Threatpost Wednesday it was working to deploy the patch soon but didnu2019t have an ETA. While Siemens wouldnu2019t confirmu00a0HITRUSTu2019s report that its devices were implicated by WannaCry, it did say it was working alongside customers and the National Health Serviceu2019s Digital department to remedyu00a0u201cthe ransomware attack.u201d u201cWe have been working alongside our customers and NHS Digital since we became aware of the ransomware attack on Friday afternoon. This is an emerging situation and our focus is on restoring system operation, as soon as possible, but without compromising on quality. Engineers have been working at affected sites and will remain in constant contact with customers until systems are restored,u201d the company said. WannaCry was blamed for interrupting services at scores ofu00a0NHS organizations in the U.K. when it first began to make the rounds on Friday. Medical device manufacturer Becton, Dickinson and Company (BD) also warned of WannaCry this week u2013 but in a more generic sense. The company didnu2019t specify which, if any, of its products were affected but said they do support Windows. In a product security service bulletin the company said it recommends users apply Microsoftu2019s CVE-2017-0290 patch and to make sure anyone running Windows has mitigation controls in place for SMB. Rockwell Automation and ABB, a Swiss robotics and automation firm, warned of the malware in advisories this weeku00a0as well. While neither company believes their software is directly implicated, both saidu00a0thatu00a0systems that run its products on Windows are likely affected. Like the other vendors, ABB encouraged customersu00a0(.PDF) to backup their systems, install MS17-010, and to block or restrict Windows File Sharing via the SMB protocol. Rockwell, which primarily ships industrial control components likeu00a0flat panel monitors, CRTs, and computers for factories, deferred users to Microsoftu2019s MS17-010 Security Bulletin. Before implementing Microsoftu2019s patch, the company is encouraging users to verify itu00a0on a non-production system to make sure thereu2019s no unwanted side effects. ICS-CERT, which published an alert Monday and updated it Tuesday, is keeping track of industrial control vendors such asu00a0Siemens and BD that have issued notifications on WannaCry. The team is urging healthcare providers to follow the FDAu2019s guidance on medical device cybersecurity which says companies donu2019t need FDA review to make changes to medical devices if theyu2019re to strengthen cybersecurity. The Electronic Healthcare Network Accreditation Commission, a self-governing standards development organization that oversees electronic health networks, was quick to warn of WannaCry on Sunday.u00a0The commission said it was monitoring privacy controls u201cwithin accreditation criteria to mitigate the threat of similar data breaches and to secure Protected Health Information managed by healthcare stakeholders.u201d u201cWe applaud the efforts of the security agencies working to contain and stop this attack and encourage all to review their privacy and security procedures, and ensure they are best prepared to mitigate the impact of future threats.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835cd6cefc42b00294799" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Windows SMB Zero Day to Be Disclosed During DEF CON", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/windows-smb-zero-day-to-be-disclosed-during-def-con/126927/", "Date" : "July 26, 2017 , 9:00 am", "Article" : "LAS VEGASu2014A 20-year-old Windows SMB vulnerability is expected to be disclosed Saturday during a talk at DEF CON. Microsoft has said it will not patch the vulnerability, which allows an attacker to remotely crash a Windows server with relative ease using only 20 lines of Python code and a Raspberry Pi. The vulnerability affects every version of the SMB protocol and every Windows version dating back to Windows 2000. It was likely introduced into the operating system much earlier, said Sean Dillon, senior security researcher at RiskSense. Dillon, who conducted his research with colleague Zach Harding, called the attack SMBloris because it is comparable to Slowloris, a 2009 attack developed by Robert Hansen. Both attacks can use a single machine to crash or freeze a much more powerful server, but Slowloris, unlike SMBloris, targets webservers. u201cSimilar to Slowloris, it requires opening many connections to the server, but these are low-cost connections for the attacker, so a single machine is able to perform the attack,u201d Dillon said. Dillon was among the first researchers to analyze EternalBlue, the leaked NSA SMB exploit that was used to spread the WannaCry ransomware attack and ExPetr wiper malware. It was during that analysis that Dillon uncovered this issue. u201cWhile working on EternalBlue, we observed a pattern in the way memory allocations were done on the non-paged pool of the Windows kernel. The non-paged pool is memory that has to be reserved in physical RAM; it canu2019t be swapped out,u201d Dillon explained. u201cThatu2019s the most precious pool of memory on the system. We figured out how to exhaust that pool, even on servers that are very beefy, even 128 GB of memory. We can take that down with a Raspberry Pi.u201d The issue was privately reported to Microsoft in early June as the EternalBlue analysis was completed, Dillon said. Microsoft told the researchers that two internal security teams concluded the vulnerability was a moderate issue and would not be moved into the security branch, and likely never fixed. Saturdayu2019s DEF CON talk will be 60 days after the initial report was sent to Microsoft and 45 days after Microsoftu2019s response was relayed. u201cThe case offers no serious security implications and we do not plan to address it with a security update,u201d a Microsoft spokesperson told Threatpost. u201cFor enterprise customers who may be concerned, we recommend they consider blocking access from the internet to SMBv1.u201d u201cThe reason they say itu2019s a moderate issue is because it does require opening many connections to the server, but you could do it all from a single machine, and a Raspberry Pi could take down the beefiest server,u201d Dillon said. The vulnerability lies in the way SMB packets are processed and memory is allocated. Dillon and Harding said they found a way to take advantage of that allocation system to crash a server. u201cIt will amplify already existing attacks like DDoS attacks,u201d Dillon said. u201cWhy DDoS when you can DoS from a single machine. You donu2019t need a botnet to take down a Windows server.u201d The attack is able to allocate all memory a server has available, to the point where it wonu2019t even blue screen, Dillon said. The operating system crashes as it looks through long memory lists looking for unallocated memory, causing the CPU to spike. u201cYou get critical services to crash and you can completely freeze the system,u201d Dillon said. u201cThere are also lots of integrity issues because when you have all the non-paged pool memory allocated already, certain disk rights, even logging canu2019t take place because thereu2019s no memory. One of the problems weu2019ve run into is that weu2019ve completely exhausted the system and cause it to freeze; one of the reasons it doesnu2019t blue-screen is because it doesnu2019t have enough resources needed to blue-screen. It will freeze and never come back.u201d Dillon said he and Harding will share some additional technical details during their talk and will demo the attack. u201cItu2019s such a simple attack really; I think a lot of the people there will be able to catch on to whatu2019s happening,u201d Dillon said. As for a fix, Dillon believes it wouldnu2019t be a simple task for Microsoft. u201cI think thatu2019s the problem is that itu2019s not the easiest fix; itu2019s the way theyu2019ve done SMB memory allocation for over 20 years. So everything relies on the fact the client says u2018I have a buffer that Iu2019m sending thatu2019s this big.u2019 The server reserves that much memory so it can handle it,u201d Dillon said. u201cWhat we did we say I have a huge buffer and never send the buffer. Thereu2019s still a lot of components that rely on the fact that buffer is already allocated and the size is already known.u201d Dillon said a mitigation can be applied through inline devices including firewalls by limiting the number of active connections from a single IP address to SMB ports. Ironically, the only reason Dillon and Harding found the bug was because this critical information used in the pool grooming for EternalBlue. u201cYou have to have those allocations happen,u201d Dillon said. u201cSo actually, if this behavior was not the way it was, the pool grooming in EternalBlue would not be the same and the exploit might not work at all.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835d56cefc42b002947a4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Massive Smominru Cryptocurrency Botnet Rakes In Millions", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/massive-smominru-cryptocurrency-botnet-rakes-in-millions/129726/", "Date" : "February 1, 2018 , 10:44 am", "Article" : "Criminals behind the cryptocurrency miner Smominru have raked in between $2.8 to $3.6 million since May. The payday is impressive, say researchers at Proofpoint, who report that operators have amassed a formidable botnet of infected servers pumping out 24 Monero daily, or the equivalent of $8,500. The Smominru botnet, researchers said, is comprised of 526,000 infected Windows-based servers spread across Russia, India and Taiwan. The botnet is about twice the size of the cryptocurrency botnet Adylkuzz identified in May by Proofpoint. Like Adylkuzz, Smominru uses the same NSA exploit EternalBlue as an attack kit to infect computers and make them part of a botnet that mines Monero cryptocurrency, researchers said. Patrick Wheeler, director of threat intelligence at Proofpoint, said the campaign has been surprisingly large and resilient to efforts to disrupt it. u201cMining bots at this point are not uncommon, but what makes Smominru unique is the size, profitability and its resilience,u201d Wheeler said. The botnet has withstood sinkhole mitigation efforts to analyze and disrupt operations. u201cSmominru (is) adapting to the sinkholing and returning to two thirds of its hash rate with a new Monero mining address,u201d according to Proofpoint researchers who published a technical analysis of the botnet on Wednesday. Wheeler said, with ransomware or banking trojans, itu2019s often hard to get a sense of profitability. But with cryptocurrency itu2019s easy to get a sense of how effective they are. The threat landscape is changing. Cybercriminals have gravitated away from ransomware and banking trojans and are now focused on cryptocurrency as values have risen sharply over the past 18 months, he said. u201cAs Bitcoin has become prohibitively resource-intensive to mine outside of dedicated mining farms, interest in Monero has increased dramatically. While Monero can no longer be mined effectively on desktop computers, a distributed botnet like that described here can prove quite lucrative for its operators,u201d according to Proofpoint. Part of Smominruu2019s success is the mineru2019s use of Windows Management Infrastructure (WMI), which researchers said is unusual among coin mining malware. WMI is a scripting tool for automating actions in the Windows ecosystem, primarily used on servers. u201cWe have never seen WMI used in any other coin miners,u201d Wheeler said. Typically, coin miners have their own dedicated command-and-control (C2) network. Researchers say Smominru operators are using a hybrid of traditional C2 and WMI to configure and manage mining bots. Proofpoint warns that because of the disproportionate numbers of Windows servers used in the Smominru botnet, affected business may see performance hits to servers as well as a jump in energy costs as systems run close to capacity. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835dc6cefc42b002947ac" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "MassMiner Takes a Kitchen-Sink Approach to Cryptomining", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/massminer-takes-a-kitchen-sink-approach-to-cryptomining/131687/", "Date" : "May 3, 2018 , 4:26 pm", "Article" : "Though it falls squarely into the trend of cryptominers setting their sights on the Monero virtual currency, the MassMiner malware family is adding its own special somethinu2019-somethinu2019 to the mix. It targets Windows servers with a variety of recent and well-known exploits u2013 all within a single executable. In fact, MassMiner uses a veritable cornucopia of attacks: The EternalBlue National Security Agency hacking tool (CVE-2017-0143), which it uses to install DoublePulsar and the Gh0st RAT backdoor to establish persistence; an exploit for the well-known Apache Struts flaw that led to the Equifax breach (CVE-2017-5638); and an exploit for Oracleu2019s WebLogic Java application server (CVE-2017-10271). It also uses the SQLck tool to gain brute-force access to Microsoft SQL Servers, and it even incorporates a fork of MassScan, a legitimate tool that can scan the internet in under six minutes. u201cIt surprised us how many different exploits and hacking tools it leverages,u201d said AlienVault researchers Chris Doman and Fernando Martinez, who analyzed the code. They added that the malware family comprises many different versions, but they all spread first within the local network of its initial host, before attempting to propagate across the wider internet. As for the anatomy of the attack, compromised Microsoft SQL Servers are first subjected to scripts that install MassMiner and disable a number of important security features and anti-virus protections. Once the malware has been installed, it sets about mining for Monero and hooking up with a crypto-wallet and mining pool; it also connects with its C2 server for updates, and configures itself to infect other machines on the network. Meanwhile, a short VisualBasic script is used to deploy the malware to compromised Apache Struts servers, and it moves laterally by replicating itself like a worm. MassScan meanwhile passes a list of both private and public IP ranges to scan during execution, to find fresh server targets out on the web that it can break into with the SQLck brute-force tool. So far, the criminals behind the malware have been successful with this kitchen-sink approach: AlienVault in its analysis identified two Monero wallets belonging to the attackers. The success is unsurprising, according to Ruchika Mishra, director of products and solutions at Balbix. u201cGiven [the workforce skills shortage], itu2019s not hard to imagine a multi-pronged attack such as MassMiner bypassing security systems and staying under the radar with relative ease,u201d Mishra said via email. u201cWith the proliferation of coin-mining attacks in 2017 and 2018, I foresee continued innovation and a significant uptick in complexity as the barrier to entry for attackers lowers and iterations of successful exploits become more readily available on the Dark Web.u201d Worryingly, other capabilities in the bad code suggest that MassMiner may have loftier goals than simply cryptomining. On the EternalBlue front, it uses the exploit to drop the DoublePulsar Windows kernel attack, which is a sophisticated memory-based payload that hooks onto x86 and 64-bit systems and allows an attacker to execute any raw shellcode payload they wish, giving them full control over the system. MassMiner also uses EternalBlue to install Gh0st RAT, a trojan backdoor for persistence that has targeted the Windows platform for years. It was once primarily a nation-state tool used in APT espionage attacks against government agencies, activists and other political targets, until the EternalBlue exploit was used to spread it in other contexts last year. Incidentally, this is not the only cryptomining malware to make use of the ShadowBrokersu2019 release of a trove of NSA exploits. Last week, a malware called PyRoMine that uses the EternalRomance tool was found in the wild mining Monero. Like MassMiner, it has far-ranging and concerning capabilities: It sets up a hidden default account on the victimized machine with system administrator privileges, which can be used for re-infection and further attacks. The multi-pronged approach may be unusual, but it showcases the increasingly complex task that businesses have in front of them when it comes to their security postures. u201cThe enterprise attack surface is hyper-dimensional and constantly increasing with hundreds of attack vectors. Enterprises continue to struggle with not just mapping their attack surfaces, but also identifying which systems are easiest to attack and can be used as a launch point for a breach,u201d said Mishra. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835ea6cefc42b002947bd" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Microsoft Patches Office Bug Actively Being Exploited", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-patches-office-bug-actively-being-exploited/128367/", "Date" : "October 10, 2017 , 4:44 pm", "Article" : "Security experts are urging network administrators to patch a Microsoft Office vulnerability that has been exploited in the wild. The vulnerability (CVE-2017-11826) could allow remote code execution if a user opens a specially crafted Office file. It was one ofu00a062 vulnerabilities patched by Microsoft as part of its monthly Patch Tuesday updates released today.u00a0Of those, 23 ofu00a0 the vulnerabilities are rated critical, 34 rated as important and 33 can result in remote code execution. As for the Microsoft Office vulnerability Microsoft said: u201cIf the current user is logged on with administrative user rights, an attacker could take control of the affected system. An attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights.u201d The vulnerability is rated important, but tops the list of vulnerabilities to address this month because the bug has been exploited in the wild. Researchers atu00a0Qihoo 360 Core Security are credited for first detectingu00a0an in-the-wild attack that leveraged CVE-2017-11826 on Sept. 28. u201cThe attack only targeted limited customers,u201d wroteu00a0u00a0Qihoo.u00a0u201cThe attacker embedded malicious .docx in the RTF files. Through reversing analysis of the sample C&C, we found that the attack was initiated in August and the launch date of the attack can be dated back to September.u201d u201cPriority should also be given to CVE-2017-11771, which is a vulnerability in the Windows Search service. This is the fourth Patch Tuesday this year to feature a vulnerability in this service,u201d wrote Jimmy Graham, director of product management at Qualys in a blog post analysis of Tuesdayu2019s patches. u201cAs with the others, this vulnerability can be exploited remotely via SMB to take complete control of a system, and can impact both servers and workstations.u201d He noted, while an exploit against CVE-2017-11771 can leverage SMB as an attack vector, it isnu2019t related to the recent SMB vulnerabilities leveraged by EternalBlue, WannaCry and NotPetya. Among other patches issued by Microsoft, the company addressed critical Windows DNS client vulnerabilities (CVE-2017-11779) with a patch that closed off an avenue where an attacker could relatively simply respond to DNS queries with malicious code and gain arbitrary code execution on Windows clients or Windows Server installations. The flaws were discovered and privately disclosed to Microsoft by Nick Freeman, a security researcher with Bishop Fox. u201cAn attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could run arbitrary code in the context of the Local System Account,u201d Microsoft said. Impacted is Windows 8.1 through 10 including Windows Server 2012 through 2016. Another noteworthy bug is a Windows Subsystem for Linux, denial of service vulnerability (CVE-2017-8703). This previously publicly disclosed bug could allow an attacker to execute a specially crafted application to affect an object in memory allowing an attacker to cause the system to become unresponsive, Microsoft. The only affected product is Windows 10 (Version 1703). Chris Goettl, manager of product management, security at Ivanti, also noted a critical Microsoft Office SharePoint XSS vulnerability (CVE-2017-11777) that can be abused by an attacker who send a specially crafted request to an affected SharePoint server. If successful, u201cthe attacker would have the same security context as the current user allowing them to read data they should not have access to, use the victimu2019s identity to take actions on the SharePoint site on behalf of the user, and inject malicious content in the browser of the user,u201d Goettl said. Lastly, itu2019s worth noting Microsoftu2019s support for Windows 10 November Update Version 1511 (released in 2015) ends with todayu2019s updates. On the flip side, Microsoft has said the fourth major update to Windows 10 Fall Creators Update, will be release next week, on Oct. 17. Today also marks the sunsetting of support for Microsoft Office 2007. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835fa6cefc42b002947d6" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Threatpost News Wrap, July 14, 2017", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/threatpost-news-wrap-july-14-2017/126832/", "Date" : "July 14, 2017 , 10:00 am", "Article" : "Mike Mimoso and Chris Brook discuss the news of the week, includingu00a0the Verizon breach, the Oracle session hijacking attack, a Telegram-based hacking tool, and a new, free EternalBlue scanner.  Show notes: Download:u00a0Threatpost_News_Wrap_July_14_2017.mp3 Music by Chris Gonsalves " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835ff6cefc42b002947da" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Scanner Shows EternalBlue Vulnerability Unpatched on Thousands of Machines", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/scanner-shows-eternalblue-vulnerability-unpatched-on-thousands-of-machines/126818/", "Date" : "July 13, 2017 , 2:35 pm", "Article" : "Many digital trees have died for the cause of informing Windows admins about the SMBv1 vulnerability that spawned the WannaCry and ExPetr/NotPetya malware attacks. Yet a relatively small sample of data collected from a freely available tool shows that thousands have not gotten the message, or have some significant blind spots in their networks. u201cThere are always blind spots,u201d said Elad Erez, director of innovation at Imperva, who built the scanner called EternalBlues. u201cIf you have 10,000 computers, can you really be that sure (that all hosts are patched)? You canu2019t. You need someone or something to help you with it.u201d The scanner was made available in late June, and statistics collected from individuals and organizations that downloaded EternalBlues and ran it in their environments were published yesterday. More than 8 million IP addresses (not hosts) were scanned by EternalBlues in 12 days, with 537,000 of those responding on port 445, the port over which SMB communication happens. Erezu2019s statistics show that 258,000 of those hosts were running the 30-year-old SMBv1 protocol, and 60,000 of those were vulnerable to the NSAu2019s EternalBlue exploit leaked by the ShadowBrokers.  WannaCry and ExPetr/NotPetya infected networks worldwide, with a heavy concentration of victimized machines in Russia and the Ukraine; Erez said one scan in the Ukraine uncovered 1,351 vulnerable hosts. WannaCry contained its own worming functionality in that once it infected machines, it began scanning the internet for other vulnerable hosts. ExPetr, meanwhile, was a wiper attack disguised as ransomware; the ransomware component of that attack was faulty and experts said it was clear the attackers never intended to decrypt compromised data or collect any money. Instead, the malware overwrote the Master Boot Record (MBR) on infected machines, leaving them useless. Tools such as EternalBlues and others, Erez said, are vital for large networks, even those that may have applied the MS17-010 patch eradicating EternalBlue. One vulnerable endpoint is enough for either of these attacks to succeed. Erez said he built the tool for such a use case, as well as for smaller businesses that are unlikely to have IT or security teams responsible for patching or backups, the two strategies most important to countering ransomware attacks. The results of the first 12 days of scan data surprised Erez. u201cI thought it would be maybe 7 percent to 8 percent of hosts out there that would be vulnerable. It turned out to be 11 percent, a bit higher than I thought,u201d Erez said. u201cAbout one of nine hosts on the network is vulnerable. And who thought that more than half (53.9 percent) would still be open to this protocol?u201d Awareness, however, may not be the entire cause, rather a lack of total visibility, especially into large enterprise networks, Erez said. u201cPeople in the industry really know about the problem and are well aware that they need to mitigate it somehow. Running my tool, by definition, means they were well aware of the problem,u201d Erez said. u201cWhile thereu2019s pretty good awareness from those who downloaded my tool, I donu2019t think [awareness] got to that second segment of users who are less sophisticated and donu2019t come from the tech industryu2014smaller businesses. I donu2019t think it made it to there. I really wanted to make this tool for smaller businesses who donu2019t have backups, who are more likely to pay, to help them before the next attack.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3836196cefc42b002947fc" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Microsoft Patch Tuesday Update Fixes 19 Critical Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-patch-tuesday-update-fixes-19-critical-vulnerabilities/126758/", "Date" : "July 11, 2017 , 4:36 pm", "Article" : "Microsoft today released patches for 19 critical vulnerabilities, one of which was publicly known prior to the update. In all, 54 vulnerabilities were patched in Windows, Edge, Internet Explorer, Office and Exchange as part of Microsoftu2019s monthly Patch Tuesday release; 32 flaws were rated important and three moderate in severity. Security issues varied from remote code execution (RCE), cross-site scripting to elevation of privilege vulnerabilities. Six of the critical bugs were remote code execution vulnerabilities, one of which was publicly known and tied to Microsoftu2019s augmented reality device, HoloLens (CVE-2017-8584). u201cThis patch covers an RCE that occurs when HoloLens improperly handles objects in memory due to specially crafted WiFi packets,u201d according to the Zero Day Initiative (ZDI). u201cThe device can be compromised by merely receiving WiFi packets, apparently without any form of authentication at all.u201d Another critical RCE vulnerability has to do with the Windows Search Remote feature that allows users to search across multiple PCs at the same time. The vulnerability can be triggered by a remote, unauthenticated attacker over the Server Message Block (SMB) protocol. u201cA remote code execution vulnerability (CVE-2017-8589) exists when Windows Search handles objects in memory. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could take control of the affected system. An attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights,u201d according to Microsoft. The issue affects Windows Server 2016, 2012, 2008 R2, 2008 as well as desktop systems such as Windows 10, 7 and 8.1.u201cWhile this vulnerability can leverage SMB as an attack vector, this is not a vulnerability in SMB itself, and is not related to the recent SMB vulnerabilities leveraged by EternalBlue, WannaCry, and Petya,u201d said Jimmy Graham, director of product management at Qualys, in a post.u00a0 Thirteen critical scripting engine memory corruption vulnerabilities tied to Microsoft Edge were patched. One flaw (CVE-2017-8595) exists because of the way Microsoft Edge handles objects in memory and could ultimately allow an adversary to gain the same user rights as the current user, according to the bulletin. u201cIn a web-based attack scenario, an attacker could host a specially crafted website that is designed to exploit the vulnerability through Microsoft Edge and then convince a user to view the website. In addition, an attacker could embed an ActiveX control marked u2018safe for initializationu2019 in an application or Microsoft Office document that hosts the browser rendering engine,u201d according to Microsoft. u201cAmongst the Edge and IE cases are several quite simply titled u2018Scripting Engine Memory Corruption Vulnerability.u2019 Some of these cases demonstrate a new class of risk emerging in connection with JavaScript: the danger of vulnerabilities in the execution engine itself,u201d ZDI wrote. As part of Patch Tuesday, Microsoft also gave acknowledgments out to researchers such as Google Project Zero, which was behind two Critical vulnerabilities patched and one rated Important. Both Critical bugs (CVE-2017-8594 and CVE-2017-8598) were memory corruption vulnerabilities in Microsoft Edge. Researchers Yaron Zinar, Eyal Karniu00a0 and Roman Blachman with Preempt Security were credited for discovering an Important Windows elevation of privilege vulnerability (CVE-2017-8563) that exists in Microsoft Windows when Kerberos falls back to NT LAN Manager (NTLM) Authentication Protocol as the default authentication protocol. NTLM are a suite of Microsoft security protocols used for authentication and are managed through Group Policy in Active Directory. Also Tuesday, Adobe fixed six vulnerabilities in two products, one of the companyu2019s smallest security bulletins in recent memory, as part of its regularly scheduled round of updates. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3836466cefc42b0029482e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "EternalBlue Exploit Used in Retefe Banking Trojan Campaign", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/eternalblue-exploit-used-in-retefe-banking-trojan-campaign/128103/", "Date" : "September 22, 2017 , 2:02 pm", "Article" : "Criminals behind the Retefe banking Trojan have added a new component to their malware that uses the NSA exploit EternalBlue. The update makes Retefe the latest malware family to adopt the SMBv1 attack against a patched Windows vulnerability, and could signal an emerging trend, said researchers at Proofpoint. Earlier this year, researchers at Flashpoint observed the TrickBot banking Trojan had added an EternalBlue module as well. While Retefe has never reached the scale or reputation of similar Trojans such as Dridex or Zeus, it is notable for its interesting implementations and consistent regional focus in Austria, Sweden, Switzerland, Japan and more recently the United Kingdom, researchers said. u201cUnlike Dridex or other banking Trojans that rely on webinjects to hijack online banking sessions, Retefe operates by routing traffic to and from the targeted banks through various proxy servers, often hosted on the TOR network,u201d said Proofpoint in a technical post Thursday explaining its research. Over the past several months, researchers have observed a wave of new Retefe campaigns consisting of unsolicited emails containing malicious Microsoft Office documents. Attachments contain embedded Package Shell Objects, or Object Linking and Embedding Objects, that are typically Windows Shortcut u201c.lnku201d files, researchers said. If the user opens the shortcut and accepts the security warning that appears, a PowerShell command initiates the download of a self-extracting Zip archive hosted on a remote server. The Zip archive contains an obfuscated JavaScript installer. When researchers de-obfuscated the JavaScript installer they found several configuration session parameters. In recent weeks, researchers said, a u201cpseb:u201d parameter has been added which references a script that implements the EternalBlue exploit that can be used to spread laterally within targeted networks. u201cWe first observed the u2018pseb:u2019 parameter on Sept. 5. The u2018pseb:u2019 configuration implements the EternalBlue exploit, borrowing most of its code from a publicly available proof-of-concept,u201d researchers wrote. Proofpoint said the ExternalBlue parameter used by the adversary also contains functionality to log the installation and victim configuration details and uploads data to an FTP server. The payload configuration for this implementation of EternalBlue downloads a PowerShell script from a remote server, which includes an embedded executable that installs Retefe, researchers said. u201cWe are observing increasingly targeted attacks from this group, that, with the addition of the EternalBlue exploit, creates opportunities for effective propagation within networks once initial targets have been compromised,u201d Proofpoint wrote. Researchers note,u00a0 on Sept.20, the u201cpseb:u201d section had been replaced with a new u201cpslog:u201d section that contained only the EternalBlue logging functions. u201cThis installation, however, lacks the the u2018pseb:u2019 module responsible for further lateral spread via EternalBlue, thus avoiding an infinite spreading loop,u201d they said. Researchers urge companies to ensure that they are fully patched against the EternalBlue vulnerability (CVE-2017-0144). u201cCompanies should also block associated traffic in IDS systems and firewalls and block malicious messages (the primary vector for Retefe) at the email gateway,u201d Proofpoint added. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38366a6cefc42b00294854" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Complex Petya-Like Ransomware Outbreak Worse than WannaCry", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/complex-petya-like-ransomware-outbreak-worse-than-wannacry/126561/", "Date" : "June 27, 2017 , 4:06 pm", "Article" : "Join Kaspersky Lab and Comae Technologies Thursday June 29, 2017 at 10 a.m. Eastern time for a webinar u201cThe Inside Story of the Petya/ExPetr Ransomware.u201d Click here to attend. The attackers behind todayu2019s global ransomware outbreak are spreading the malware using a modified version of the leaked NSA EternalBlue exploit and two Windows utilities to move laterally on local networks, adding layers of complexity to this attack to where it could dwarf WannaCry in short order. Unlike WannaCry, this new ransomware sample contains no killswitch and is burrowing through corporate networks and endpoints, forcing workers at a number of locations to pull their machines from the internet. Critical industries and services have been affected since the attack began this morning in Russia, Ukraine and then throughout Europe, including the radiation monitoring station for the crippled Chernobyl nuclear power plant and pharmaceutical giant Merck and Co.u2019s MSD operation in the United Kingdom. This augments a growing list of victims that also includes Danish shipping giants Maersk, Ukraineu2019s central bank, the countryu2019s Borispol Airport in Kiev and dozens of other victims there, along with SaintGobain, a leading manufacturer in France and Russian oil company Rosneft and steel manufacturer Evraz. Complicating matters is the fact German email provider Posteo, which hosts the email address provided in the ransom note, wowsmith123456@posteo[.]net has shut down the attackeru2019s account. Victims are being advised not to pay because there is no way for the attacker to deliver the decryption key even if the $300 demand in Bitcoin is arranged.  u201cThere is no killswitch as of yet, and reports say the ransom email is invalid so paying up is not recommended,u201d said researcher Sean Dillon of RiskSense. The ransomware behaves similarly to a year-old strain called Petya, which encrypts a computeru2019s Master File Table along with a number of file types. Experts are divided on whether this is Petya, a variant, or a knock-off, but that matters little to victims worldwide. u201cThis appears to be a complex attack which involves several attack vectors,u201d Kaspersky Lab said in a statement. The company published its analysis of the attack this afternoon. The gravity of this attack is multiplied by the fact that even servers patched against the SMBv1 vulnerability exploited by EternalBlue can be successfully attacked, provided there is at least one Windows server on the network vulnerable to the flaw patched in March in MS17-010. The attackers have built in the capability to infect patched local machines using the PSEXEC Windows SysInternals utility to carry out a pass-the-hash attack. Some researchers have also documented usage of the Windows Management Instrumentation (WMIC) command line scripting interface to spread the ransomware locally. Organizations are being advised to disable both utilities and apply MS17-010 if they havenu2019t done so already. u201cIf I run the attack on my machine and Iu2019m a domain admin, it uses my credentials to authenticate to other machines on the network,u201d said Matthew Hickey, founder of My Hacker House. u201cIn an enterprise environment, if it gets one privileged user, one domain admin, this will spread across the network even to patched machines.u201d Unlike WannaCry, this attack does not have an internet-facing worming component, and only scans internal subnets looking for other machines to infect. u201cI think this is actually worse than WannaCry from that perspective alone,u201d said Jake Williams, founder of Rendition Infosec. Williams said that this version of EternalBlue has been u201ccleaned up,u201d and that itu2019s not a direct copy-and-paste of the original leaked by the ShadowBrokers in April along with the Fuzzbunch platform. Once a server is compromised by EternalBlue, the attacker is in as a system user. u201cYouu2019re basically in God mode on the machine,u201d Williams said. u201cFrom there, you can take the local admin account and PSEXEC from there to another machine if the machines share the same credentials (which would have been set up by an admin). If theyu2019re the same, youu2019re going to be successful. It passes the authentication hash and the attacker can begin pivoting around the network, even to patched machines. Some thought went into this and how to improve on WannaCryu2019s distribution method.u201d Researchers at Cisco, also confirmed by Kaspersky Lab, have identified a Ukrainian tax accounting package called MeDoc as a potential infection vector. Both companiesu2019 researchers said some infections could be linked to an attack against MeDocu2019s software update systems. Early reports also suspected that some infections were spread via phishing emails with infected Excel documents exploiting a CVE-2017-0199, a Microsoft Office/WordPad remote code execution vulnerability. Experts such as Dillon and Hickey were concerned about this type of virulent outbreak leveraging EternalBlue that did not include a WannaCry-like killswitch. Hickey said a sample he examined arrived as a DLL wrapped in crypto that also includes anti-analysis capabilities, something that Williams confirmed. u201cAs soon as I saw MS17-010, I began banging the drum quite loudly about exactly this type of incident,u201d Hickey said. u201cEven though itu2019s been patched, it only takes one missing patch on a critical server that will be the Achilles heel of a network.u201d Avecto VP Andrew Avanessian said there may be copycat malware for the foreseeable future. u201cCyber criminals are taking a preexisting piece of malware and changed some of the payload elements of it. With the release of different hacking techniques from the NSA, nation-state hacking capabilities are now in the hands of novice cybercriminals,u201d Avanessian said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38366f6cefc42b00294858" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "U.S. Government Blames North Korea for WannaCry", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/u-s-government-blames-north-korea-for-wannacry/129201/", "Date" : "December 19, 2017 , 2:41 pm", "Article" : "The United States government is officially blaming North Korea for the WannaCry ransomware outbreak in May that infected nearly a quarter-million computers in 150 countries. Calling it a u201ccareless and recklessu201d attack, White House Homeland Security Adviser Tom Bossert said Tuesday at a White House press briefing, the attack u201caffected individuals, industry, governments and the consequences went beyond economic.u201d The WannaCry outbreak was a massive worldwide ransomware attack that used the EternalBlue exploit to rapidly propagate the malware over corporate LANs and wireless networks. A number of security experts, including those at Kaspersky Lab, have linked the WannaCry attacks tou00a0North Koreau2019s Lazarus Group, an outfit either within that countryu2019s government or acting on its behalf. u201cAfter careful investigation, the U.S. today publicly attributes the massive WannaCry cyberattack to North Korea,u201d Bossert wrote in an article for theu00a0Wall Street Journal on Tuesday. Bossert said the U.S. shared its WannaCry analysis other governments, such as the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Japan, and that they also agreed to u201cdenounceu201d North Korea for WannaCry attacks. He said Microsoft and others in the cycbersecurity community also helped trace WannaCry back to North Korea. u201cNorth Korea has acted especially badly, largely unchecked, for more than a decade, and its malicious behavior is growing more egregious. WannaCry was indiscriminately reckless,u201d Bossert said. Tim Erlin, VP of Product Management and Strategy at Tripwire, saidu00a0accurate attribution for cyber attacks is almost always a difficult task. u201cItu2019s doubly so when the evidence leading to the conclusion canu2019t be shared,u201d he said.u00a0 u201cThis conclusion about North Koreau2019s culpability isnu2019t new. The UK discussed the very same conclusion in October, with the very same caveats about sharing the actual evidence. You canu2019t arrest a nation-state, which inevitably prevents any real closure on an incident like WannaCry,u201d Erlin said. u201cIf weu2019re going to have national security organizations delivering these types of conclusions on attribution to the public, we need to find a way to develop trusted output.u201d Researchers said the attackers behind the May outbreak of WannaCry ransomware used EternalBlue, the codename for an exploit made public by the mysterious group that is in possession of offensive hacking tools allegedly developed by the NSA. EternalBlue is a remote code execution attack taking advantage of a SMBv1 vulnerability in Windows. Microsoft patched the vulnerability on March 14, one month before the exploit was publicly leaked. The attackers did not make a concerted effort to collect on ransom demands of approximately $300 in Bitcoin in exchange for a decryption key that would unlock any files encrypted during the WannaCry attack. Experts also said WannaCryu2019s well-documented killswitch was an odd choice to include in the ransomware, something that researchers still havenu2019t completely figured out. Marcus Hutchins, the researcher hailed for his work in blunting the WannaCry ransomware outbreak in May, was arrested in August in Las Vegas and charged with creating and distributing the Kronos banking malware. In a Wall Street Journal op-ed, Bossert called on the private sector to increase its u201caccountability in the cyber realm by taking actions that deny North Korea.u201d He also referenced action by Microsoft and u201cothersu201d who u201cacting on their own initiative last week, without any direction or participation by the U.S.u201d disrupted the activities of North Korean hackers. u201cStopping malicious behavior like this starts with accountability. It also requires governments and businesses to cooperate to mitigate cyber risk and increase the cost to hackers. The U.S. must lead this effort, rallying allies and responsible tech companies throughout the free world to increase the security and resilience of the internet,u201d he said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38366f6cefc42b0029485a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Second Global Ransomware Outbreak Under Way", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/second-global-ransomware-outbreak-under-way/126549/", "Date" : "June 27, 2017 , 11:34 am", "Article" : "Join Kaspersky Lab and Comae Technologies Thursday June 29, 2017 at 10 a.m. Eastern time for a webinar u201cThe Inside Story of the Petya/ExPetr Ransomware.u201d Click here to attend. A global WannaCry-like ransomware outbreaku2013which began in Russia and Ukraine and spread across Europeu2013is being reported today. The attack is locking down networks in a number of industries, including energy, transportation, shipping and financial. Reports suggest that ransomware is similar in scope and intensity to WannaCry and could be spreading using the same leaked NSA EternalBlue exploit that WannaCry used in early May to infect machines in more than 150 countries. Security experts are still trying to determine what type of ransomware is being distributed. Early theories pointed at Petya while others say the ransomware may be a new strain yet to be identified. Kaspersky Lab malware analyst Vyacheslav Zakorzhevsky said infections were traced to a u201cnew ransomware we havenu2019t seen before.u201d Matt Suiche, founder of cyber security firm Comae Technologies, said he saw evidence of infections through SMB, the same vector used by EternalBlue and the accompanying DoublePulsar rootkit; the vulnerability was patched in March by Microsoft in MS17-010.  The impact of the attacks are difficult to quantify as they continue. However, Danish transport and energy company Maersk is reporting on its website: u201cWe can confirm that Maersk IT systems are down across multiple sites and business units due to a cyber attack.u201d  Russian oil producer Rosneft said that it has been hit with a u201cpowerfulu201d cyberattack.   Reuters is reporting that the Ukrainian central bank has also been hit by a similar cyberattack along with several other financial institutions. u201cAs a result of these cyber attacks these banks are having difficulties with client services and carrying out banking operations,u201d the central bank said in a statement, according to the Reuters report. Ukrainian officials tweeted images of infected computers at the state-owned Ukrenergo and Kyivenergo power companies. The ransom note reads: u201cWe guarantee that you can recover all your files safely and easily. All you need to do is submit the payment and purchase the decryption key.u201d u00a0Based on current value of bitcoins, the ransom is approximately $300. Meanwhile, the Facebook page of Kievu2019s Borispol Airport posted a statement: u201cOur IT services are working together to resolve the situation. There may be delays in flights due to the situationu2026 The official Site of the airport and the flight schedules are not working.u201d u00a0 (This report will be updated throughout the day as the story develops.) " }n"
%%%Heartbleed bug2014——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359ae86cefc42d78dc6390" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "New Codenomicon Program Helps Verify Security of Critical Systems", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/new-codenomicon-program-helps-verify-security-critical-systems", "Date" : "August 08, 2014", "Article" : "Codenomicon, the Finland-based security firm that claimed discovery (along with Googleu2019s Neel Mehta) and branded the Heartbleed bug, has launched a new verification program designed to help critical systems manufacturers test the security and robustness of their products. Dubbed CodeVerify by the company, the program provides security and robustness testing metrics for critical systems, including medical devices, industrial control systems (ICS), networking equipment, software applications, and even for the automotive industry. The program aims to help organizations improve product security as a part of their development process, Codenomicon said.  "These are industries that are rapidly embracing connectivity after a long history of isolation, amplifying the need to a heightened standard of security," commented Mike Ahmadi, Global Director of Critical Systems Security at Codenomicon. "In an answer to this shift, we have noticed a keen interest for our testing, intelligence and security products across these critical industries that power the connected world. The CodeVerify program is designed to make this transition far more smooth and secure."  The verification process has four phases, three of which involve internal work using automated testing tools that allow manufacturers to improve the development process without straining their resources. In the first phase, the product is scanned for third-party and open source components that could pose a security risk. Then, interfaces that are exposed to attacks are identified through a network scan.  In the third phase, protocol implementations are tested using Codenomicon's Defensics security testing platform which, according to the company, is already successfully leveraged by organizations such as Verizon and the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). These verifications are repeated until no weaknesses are found, Codenomicon said.  In the final phase of the verification process, the test results are sent to Codenomicon, whose experts conduct an external review of the product. Once testing is complete, solutions that pass the test are given the CodeVerified status.  "As the Internet of Things continues to progress, a higher level of visibility is required to ensure true safety and security. While our customers have found our tools to be invaluable in helping them build more secure and robust devices, they are looking for a best-of-breed standard to set as a baseline goal for security," explained Codenomicon CEO David Chartier.  "CodeVerify caters to the demands of these leading companies who have been asking for a benchmarking standard so that as they continue with their testing and analysis, they can easily compare their products against the most mature, secure and robust standards. Using Codenomicon tools allows them to test and gain visibility at the highest levels. CodeVerified confirms this status to the industry at large." " }n"
%%%DROWN2011——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597286cefc42d78dc5abd" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Flaw in F5 Products Allows Recovery of Encrypted Data", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/flaw-f5-products-allows-recovery-encrypted-data", "Date" : "November 20, 2017", "Article" : "A crypto vulnerability affecting some F5 Networks products can be exploited by a remote attacker for recovering encrypted data and launching man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks, the company told customers on Friday. The impacted products are part of F5u2019s BIG-IP application delivery platform, including security, traffic management and performance services such as LTM, AAM, AFM, Analytics, APM, ASM, DNS, GTM, Link Controller, and PEM. The flaw also affects the F5 WebSafe anti-fraud solution. According to F5, the vulnerability exposes virtual servers configured with a Client SSL profile and RSA key exchange enabled to adaptive chosen-ciphertext attacks, also known as Bleichenbacher attacks. Launching an attack against a TLS session established using an RSA key exchange allows a remote hacker to recover plaintext data and launch MitM attacks, even if they donu2019t have access to the serveru2019s private key. Nick Sullivan, cryptography expert at Cloudflare, pointed out that the vulnerability is similar to the notorious DROWN bug, which allows an attacker to decrypt TLS communications when SSLv2 is used. However, he said the F5 bug is worse as the SSLv2 requirement is eliminated. u201cNote that you donu2019t need to have the private key to decrypt non-FS [forward secrecy] TLS sessions. You only need to find a server using the key with a padding oracle,u201d Sullivan said. u201cWe should all be grateful for the people in the industry who successfully pushed for forward secrecy to be the default in HTTPS.u201d The vulnerability is tracked as CVE-2017-6168 and it has been assigned a CVSS score of 9.1, which puts it in the critical severity category. F5 has released updates that patch the security hole for each of the affected products. The company has also provided advice for partial or full mitigation, and pointed out that an attack is not easy to conduct. u201cExploiting this vulnerability to perform plaintext recovery of encrypted messages will, in most practical cases, allow an attacker to read the plaintext only after the session has completed,u201d F5 said in its advisory. u201cExploiting this vulnerability to conduct a MiTM attack requires the attacker to complete the initial attack, which may require millions of server requests, during the handshake phase of the targeted session within the window of the configured handshake timeout,u201d the company added. u201cThis attack may be conducted against any TLS session using RSA signatures, but only if cipher suites using RSA key exchange are also enabled on the virtual server. The limited window of opportunity, limitations in bandwidth, and latency make this attack significantly more difficult to execute.u201d The vendor said the highest risk is to virtual servers where the Generic Alert option, which is enabled by default, has been disabled. This is due to the fact that these systems report the specific handshake failure, which can be useful to the attacker, instead of a generic message. The security hole was reported to the vendor by Tripwireu2019s Craig Young, researcher Hanno Bu00f6ck, and Juraj Somorovsky of Ruhr-Universitu00e4t Bochum. Itu2019s worth noting that Somorovsky was part of the team that first described the DROWN attack. Details of the vulnerability will be published at a later date. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35977b6cefc42d78dc5b9b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Flaws in Open Source Components Pose Increasing Risk to Apps: Study", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/flaws-open-source-components-pose-increasing-risk-apps-study", "Date" : "May 15, 2018", "Article" : "Open source components have been increasingly used by developers, but failure to patch vulnerabilities in this type of software can pose serious risks. The 2018 Open Source Security and Risk Analysis (OSSRA) report published on Tuesday by Synopsys shows that of the more than 1,100 commercial codebases analyzed by the company last year, 96% contained open source components, the same percentage as the previous year. However, many applications now contain more open source than proprietary code, with the percentage of open source components in the codebases of scanned apps increasing from 36% in 2016 to 57% in 2017. The study shows that 78% of the examined codebases were plagued by at least one open source vulnerability, compared to 67% in the previous year. The average number of flaws discovered per codebase in 2017 was 64, which represents an increase of 134%. Synopsys noted that more than 4,800 vulnerabilities were found in open source software last year, which is not surprising considering that the total number of flaws recorded by the National Vulnerability Database (NVD) exceeded 14,700, compared to only 6,400 in 2016. More than half of the vulnerabilities identified during Synopsysu2019 analysis have been classified as u201chigh risku201d and 17% of them have been highly publicized (e.g. Heartbleed, Logjam, FREAK, DROWN, POODLE). Logjam was the most common, being found in 11% of codebases. Another highly publicized security hole, the Apache Struts 2 flaw exploited in the massive Equifax hack (CVE-2017-5638), was found in 33% of the codebases that used Struts.  The study is based on data collected from a wide range of sectors, including cyber security, automotive, big data, financial services, enterprise software, healthcare, manufacturing, mobile app markets, and Internet of Things (IoT). The largest percentage of high risk open source flaws was identified in the applications of Internet and software infrastructure (67%), Internet and mobile apps (60%), virtual reality, gaming and media (50%), and cybersecurity companies (41%). The report from Synopsys also highlights another u2013 often overlooked u2013 major risk associated with open source software, namely license issues. u201cOpen source components are governed by one of about 2,500 known open source licenses, many with obligations and varying levels of restriction. Failure to comply with open source licenses can put businesses at significant risk of litigation and compromise of IP,u201d the company said in its report. u201cThese license requirements can be managed and complied with only if the open source components governed by those licenses are identified. Just as with security vulnerabilities, it is impossible to manage license compliance risk if the components used arenu2019t identified.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597966cefc42d78dc5be3" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Old Crypto Vulnerability Hits Major Tech Firms", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/old-crypto-vulnerability-hits-major-tech-firms", "Date" : "December 13, 2017", "Article" : "A team of researchers has revived an old crypto vulnerability and determined that it affects the products of several major vendors and a significant number of the worldu2019s top websites. Last month, F5 Networks informed customers that some of its BIG-IP products include a vulnerability that can be exploited by a remote attacker for recovering encrypted data and launching man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks. The security hole was reported to the vendor by Tripwireu2019s Craig Young, researcher and journalist Hanno Bu00f6ck, and Juraj Somorovsky of Ruhr-Universitu00e4t Bochum. The experts noted at the time that the issue affected products from other vendors as well and promised to release details at a later time. While proof-of-concept (PoC) code will only be made available after affected organizations have had a chance to patch their systems, the researchers have published some additional details. The attack method now has a name, a logo and a website. It has been dubbed ROBOT (Return Of Bleichenbacher's Oracle Threat) and, as the name suggests, itu2019s related to an attack method discovered by Daniel Bleichenbacher back in 1998. The vulnerability affects TLS connections that use RSA encryption and it can allow an attacker to access protected data. The weakness, however, cannot be exploited to obtain private keys. u201cFor hosts that are vulnerable and only support RSA encryption key exchanges it's pretty bad. It means an attacker can passively record traffic and later decrypt it,u201d researchers explained. u201cFor hosts that usually use forward secrecy, but still support a vulnerable RSA encryption key exchange the risk depends on how fast an attacker is able to perform the attack. We believe that a server impersonation or man in the middle attack is possible, but it is more challenging.u201d In addition to F5, the vulnerability impacts products from Citrix (CVE-2017-17382), Radware (CVE-2017-17427), Cisco (CVE-2017-17428), Bouncy Castle (CVE-2017-13098), Erlang (CVE-2017-1000385) and WolfSSL (CVE-2017-13099). These organizations have released patches, except for Cisco, whose vulnerable ACE appliances have reached end-of-life. Several other vendors are also affected, but they will not be named until they release fixes. Experts have determined that the best workaround is to disable RSA encryption, an action which they believe has relatively low costs. Researchers have made available an online tool that can be used to test public HTTPS servers. An analysis showed that at least 27 of the top 100 Alexa websites, including Facebook and PayPal, were affected. The vulnerability that allows ROBOT attacks has been known since 1998 and several variations have been found over the years. One recent version of the attack is known as DROWN, which Somorovsky and several others discovered last year. Each new attack method resulted in a series of countermeasures being developed to protect systems against potential attacks. However, these measures have become increasingly complex, making them difficult for vendors to implement. The experts who discovered ROBOT said the vulnerability had been hiding in plain sight and the attack involves only minor modifications to the original Bleichenbacher method. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597be6cefc42d78dc5c43" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Seagate Patches Flaws in Personal Cloud, GoFlex Products", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/seagate-patches-flaws-personal-cloud-goflex-products", "Date" : "January 23, 2018", "Article" : "Seagate recently patched several vulnerabilities discovered by researchers in the companyu2019s Personal Cloud and GoFlex products, but some weaknesses impacting the latter remain unfixed. GoFlex Home vulnerabilities In late September 2017, researcher Aditya K. Sood discovered vulnerabilities that can be exploited for cross-site scripting (XSS) and man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks in Seagateu2019s GoFlex Home network-attached storage (NAS) product. GoFlex users are provided a web service, accessible at seagateshare.com, that allows them to remotely manage the product and upload files to the cloud. The service can be accessed using the name of the device, a username, and a password. An HTTP server present in the GoFlex firmware requires port forwarding on the useru2019s router in order to connect to the web service. Sood discovered that the embedded server still supports SSLv2 and SSLv3, and the seagateshare.com service supports SSLv3. SSLv2 and SSLv3 are obsolete protocols that are known to be vulnerable to MitM attacks, including via the methods known as DROWN and POODLE. The expert has identified more than 50,000 Seagate devices u2013 hosted on unique IP addresses u2013 that have SSLv2 and SSLv3 enabled. Sood also noticed that the unique name (device_id) of each device is not difficult to find. During the tests he conducted, the expert managed to collect more than 17,000 unique device IDs. Another security hole found by the researcher is an XSS affecting the seagateshare.com website. An attacker could have exploited this vulnerability to execute malicious code in the context of a useru2019s browsing session by getting the victim to click on a specially crafted link. While Seagate has fixed the XSS vulnerability, the company told Sood it does not plan on addressing the issue related to the use of SSLv2 and SSLv3. The researcher disclosed his findings on Monday. Additional technical details on the vulnerabilities are available on his blog. Personal Cloud vulnerabilities Securify researcher Yorick Koster also disclosed recently a couple of vulnerabilities he discovered in Seagate products. Specifically, he found that Personal Cloud NAS devices are affected by command injection and file deletion flaws. The security holes affect the Seagate Media Server application, which allows users to easily access their photos, music and movies. The app can be accessed without authentication and unauthenticated users can upload files using a Public folder. The command injection vulnerabilities, tracked as CVE-2018-5347, allow an unauthenticated attacker to run arbitrary commands with root privileges. The security holes can be exploited remotely via cross-site request forgery (CSRF) attacks even if a device is not directly connected to the Internet. Koster also found that the Media Server app is affected by a vulnerability that allows an unauthenticated attacker to delete arbitrary files and folders from the NAS device. Since CSRF protections are missing, this flaw can also be exploited remotely by getting the targeted user to access a specially crafted website. The vulnerabilities discovered by Koster were patched by Seagate on December 11 with the release of firmware version 4.3.18.0. Separate advisories detailing the command injection and file deletion flaws, including proof-of-concept (PoC) code, were published earlier this month. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598dc6cefc42d78dc5ed0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Facebook Awards $100,000 for Post-Quantum TLS Security Research", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/facebook-awards-100000-post-quantum-tls-security-research", "Date" : "August 15, 2016", "Article" : "Facebook has announced the winner of its 2016 Internet Defense Prize. This year, the $100,000 reward went to a team of researchers whose work has focused on post-quantum security for TLS.  Quantum computers, which rely on quantum mechanics to process information, are far more powerful than traditional computers. In theory, a quantum computer could easily crack the advanced encryption systems used today, including the cryptographic primitives used for Transport Layer Security (TLS), the protocol behind HTTPS.  Only a few experimental quantum computers exist today and they have been used for other tasks, but experts believe the possibility of a future quantum computer that could decrypt any Internet communications should not be ignored. As a result, they have started proposing methods for ensuring that cryptographic primitives cannot be cracked even by quantum computers u2013 this is known as post-quantum cryptography. Last year, researchers described a method for improving post-quantum security for TLS. The team that won this yearu2019s Internet Defense Prize proposed a new post-quantum algorithm and defense methods against backdoors and all-for-the-price-of-one attacks. The winning team includes members from the Ege University in Turkey, Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica in the Netherlands, Infineon Technologies AG in Germany, and the Radboud University in the Netherlands.  u201cUsing these measures u2014 and for the same lattice dimension u2014 they were able to increase the security parameter by more than 100 percent, reduce the communication overhead by more than half, and significantly increase computation speed in portable C implementation and current Intel CPUs, all while protecting against timing attacks,u201d Facebook said. The algorithm that won the prize, named u201cNew Hope,u201d has already been integrated into the Canary version of Googleu2019s Chrome web browser and there are plans to use it in Tor. This yearu2019s list of finalists also included the experts who developed the DROWN attack method against TLS, and the researchers who identified CVE-2016-5696, a vulnerability that allows off-path attackers to terminate TCP connections and conduct data injection attacks. Last year, the $100,000 prize went to a team that proposed a new technique for detecting bad casting or type confusion vulnerabilities.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598ef6cefc42d78dc5ef0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Patches Flaws in iOS, OS X, Other Products", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/apple-patches-flaws-ios-os-x-other-products", "Date" : "May 17, 2016", "Article" : "Updates released on Monday by Apple for OS X, iOS, iTunes, Safari, tvOS and watchOS patch tens of vulnerabilities discovered by external researchers and the companyu2019s own security team. A total of 39 CVE identifiers have been assigned to the flaws affecting Appleu2019s iOS mobile operating system. iOS 9.3.2 resolves vulnerabilities that can lead to information disclosure, arbitrary code execution, and denial-of-service (DoS). Researchers reported last month that they had found a way to bypass the lockscreen on the iPhone 6s and access photos and contacts by using Siri to conduct an online search for email addresses via Twitter. Apple said at the time that it addressed the issue through a server-side fix, but it appears the company has now also rolled out an iOS patch by disabling data detectors in Twitter results. Apple has credited independent researchers and employees of Google, Trend Micro, Context Information Security, Tencent, Nanyang Technological University, and Palo Alto Networks for reporting the vulnerabilities patched in iOS. The vulnerabilities resolved with the release of OS X El Capitan 10.11.5 have been assigned 67 CVE identifiers. However, itu2019s worth noting that many of them are issues that affect both OS X and iOS. The flaws addressed in OS X can be exploited to execute arbitrary code with root or kernel privileges, for DoS attacks, and to access potentially sensitive user information. Apple has also patched the TLS issue known as DROWN. Independent experts and people from the following organizations have been credited by Apple for reporting these security holes: BoB, Google, Trend Micro, Context Information Security, TechSmartKids, CESG, Nanyang Technological University, Computest, Knownsec, COSIG, Palo Alto Networks and Cisco. Safari 9.1.1 patches seven WebKit vulnerabilities that can be exploited for information disclosure and arbitrary code execution. One flaw that can lead to arbitrary code execution was resolved by Apple with the release of iTunes 12.4. Since the Apple TV operating system tvOS and the Apple Watch operating system watchOS are based on iOS, the vulnerabilities fixed with the release of watchOS 2.2.1 and tvOS 9.2.1 are mostly the same as the ones patched in iOS. Earlier this month, Apple released an update for its Xcode development environment to address a couple of serious vulnerabilities in the Git version control system. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3836856cefc42b00294874" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "19-Year-Old TLS Vulnerability Weakens Modern Website Crypto", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/19-year-old-tls-vulnerability-weakens-modern-website-crypto/129158/", "Date" : "December 13, 2017 , 2:33 pm", "Article" : "A vulnerability called ROBOT, first identified in 1998, has resurfaced. Impacted are leading websites ranging from Facebook to Paypal, which are vulnerable to attackers that could decrypt encrypted data and sign communications using the sitesu2019 own private encryption key. The vulnerability is found in the transport layer security protocol used for Web encryption.u00a0A successful attack could allow an attacker to passively record traffic and later decrypt it or open the door for a man-in-the-middle attack, according to researchers. ROBOT, which stands for Return Of Bleichenbacheru2019s Oracle Threat, was named after Daniel Bleichenbacher, the researcher who originally discovered it almost two decades ago. The version of ROBOT discovered recently was through Facebooku2019s bug bounty program, which paid an undisclosed reward to researchers Hanno Bu00f6ck, Juraj Somorovsky and Craig Young who published their findings Tuesday. The vulnerability is tied to the TLS protocol and a flaw in the algorithm that handles RSA encryption keys. The attack involves using specially crafted queries designed to generate errors on TLS servers that use RSA encryption to protect communications between a useru2019s browser and a website. The attack involves sending crafted queries that generate u201cyesu201d or u201cnou201d answers in a type of brute-force guessing attack. Using this technique, called an adaptive chosen-ciphertext attack, over time can force the TLS server to reveal the session key. That allows an attacker to then decrypt HTTPS traffic sent between the TLS server and the useru2019s browser. This is same technique used to exploit Bleichenbacheru2019s ROBOT vulnerability in 1998. u201cIn 1998, Daniel Bleichenbacher discovered that the error messages given by SSL servers for errors in the PKCS #1 1.5 padding allowed an adaptive-chosen ciphertext attack; this attack fully breaks the confidentiality of TLS when used with RSA encryption,u201d researchers wrote. u201cWe discovered that by using some slight variations this vulnerability can still be used against many HTTPS hosts in todayu2019s Internet.u201d The original ROBOT patch did not include replacing the insecure RSA algorithm; rather the TLS standard was modified to make brute-force guessing exponentially harder. u201cAfter Bleichenbacheru2019s original attack the designers of TLS decided that the best course of action was to keep the vulnerable encryption modes and add countermeasures. Later research showed that these countermeasures were incomplete leading the TLS designers to add more complicated countermeasures,u201d researchers wrote. u201cTheu00a0section on Bleichenbacher countermeasures in the latest TLS 1.2 standard (7.4.7.1)u00a0is incredibly complex. It is not surprising that these workarounds arenu2019t implemented correctly.u201d Since the original ROBOT patch, variations of the vulnerability have surfaced. In March 2016, a TLS vulnerability related to ROBOT called DROWN exposes 33 percent of HTTPS connections to attack. What researchers revealed on Tuesday was that a number of vendors failed to properly implement countermeasures used to protect against attacks that take advantage of the ROBOT vulnerability. u201cWe have identified vulnerable implementations from at least seven vendors including F5, Citrix, and Cisco,u201d researchers wrote. u201cSome of the most popular webpages on the Internet were affected, including Facebook and Paypal. In total, we found vulnerable subdomains on 27 of the top 100 domains as ranked by Alexa.u201d The United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team issued a security bulletin on the vulnerability Tuesday and listsu00a0eight vendors affected. On Tuesday, Cisco issued an advisory for the vulnerability it rated as medium. It said multiple Cisco products are affected such as theu00a0Cisco ACE 4710 Application Control Engine Appliance and theu00a0Cisco ACE30 Application Control Engine Module. Facebook and Paypal each issued patches in October. Researchers offer of number of stopgap mitigation solutions in its research along with offering a testingu00a0tool for public HTTPS servers, as well as au00a0Python toolu00a0to test for the vulnerability. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837346cefc42b00294947" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Patches DROWN, Lockscreen Bypass Vulnerability, With Latest Round of Updates", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/apple-patches-drown-lockscreen-bypass-vulnerability-with-latest-round-of-updates/118135/", "Date" : "May 17, 2016 , 11:20 am", "Article" : "Apple on Monday rolled out a series of patches for nearly all of its operating systems, OS X, iOS, its smart watch operating system, watchOS, and Apple TVu2019s tvOS, along with fixes for bothu00a0iTunes and Safari. OS X received the lionu2019s share of the updates, 67 in total, bringing Appleu2019s operating system El Capitan to version 10.11.5. Among the fixes, the OS X update finally resolves the DROWN vulnerability, first detailed back in March by a cooperative of 15 researchers. The vulnerability stems from a flaw in SSLv2 that relates to export-grade cryptography and could have let an attacker leak user information. Apple claims it fixed the issue by disabling SSLv2 in Tcl, an embeddable dynamic language interpreter. Roughly 25 of the 67 OS X patches address vulnerabilities that could ultimately lead to code execution, including 19 issues that could trigger an application to execute code with kernel privileges.u00a0Six more could result in either application termination or arbitrary code executionu00a0andu00a0primarily stem from flaws in graphics standards and frameworks like SceneKit, Quicktime, and OpenGL, and libraries like libxml2 and libxslt. While most of the issues exist in Appleu2019s most recent operating system, El Capitan, 12 bugs were fixed in Mavericks 10.9.5 and 14 in Yosemite 10.10.5. The libxslt issue in particular, dug up by Sebastian Apelt, a researcher at the German pentesting firm Siberas, exists in all three operating systems. The vulnerability also affects iOS, tvOS, and watchOS by extension, since the XSLT C library exists in each operating system. If an attacker tricked a user into visiting a malicious site, the vulnerability could lead to code execution. The same 19 issues that could let an application execute code with kernel privileges in OS X also affect iOS but were fixedu00a0Monday. In addition, two issues in Messages u2013 also present in OS X u2013 were fixed, including one that could have let an attacker modify a usersu2019 contact list, and another that could have let attackers leak sensitive user information. The iOS update also remedies a lockscreen bypass vulnerability that could have allowed access to contacts and photos. Spanish iPhone researcher, Jose Rodriguez a.k.a videodebarraquito, has dug up a handful of lockscreen bypass bugs in the past and is credited by Apple for finding this particular vulnerability. Apple also took the opportunity on Monday to patch a handful of issues in platforms like watchOS and tvOS, many of the same bugs it patched in iOS and OS X. Just a single issue needed to be fixed in iTunes: A dynamic library loading issue that could have led to code execution. Only seven vulnerabilities were addressed with this weeku2019s Safari update, five that could lead to code execution and two that could lead to the leaking of data.u00a0The vulnerabilities could still easily make their way into attackersu2019 toolkits however, experts claim. u201cSuch vulnerabilities are hooks for phishers to use to bait users to visit malicious websites and compromise their systems,u201d warned Chris Goettl, director of product management at LANDESK. u201cIf you have any doubt, make sure Safari is up to date quickly as the five arbitrary code vulnerabilities will undoubtedly be useful for targeting users,u201d Goettl said. The updates come roughly two weeks after Appleu2019s last set of patches, when it fixed two issues in its development environment Xcode, as they relate to its implementation of git. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837946cefc42b002949ea" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "DROWN Vulnerability Remains u2018Highu2019 Risk, Firms Say", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/drown-vulnerability-remains-high-risk-firms-say/116693/", "Date" : "March 9, 2016 , 3:56 pm", "Article" : "Despite the rush to patch systems at risk to the massive transport layer security (TLS) vulnerability, known as DROWN, hundreds of cloud services are still at risk of attack. According to two independent research firms, Netskope and Skyhigh Networks, a week after the vulnerability was identified DROWN still presents a high risk to companies. Skyhigh Cloud Security Labs estimates the number of cloud services vulnerable to DROWN has only fallen from 653 to 620 (5.1 per cent) within the past week. It maintains the patch response to DROWN pales in comparison to similar vulnerabilities such as Heartbleed. One week after fixes for Heartbleed were made available, by comparison, the number of cloud services still vulnerable dropped 92.7 percent. Netskope researchers estimate 676 Software-as-a-Service applications are vulnerable to a DROWN attack. Two of those apps are considered as u201chighu201d risk, 42 apps are rated u201cmediumu201d and the remainder u201clowu201d. Netskopeu2019s app risk assessment is based on seven criteria including the apps financial viability, privacy implications and reliance on service level agreements. Ravi Balupari, Netskopeu2019s director of engineering and head of cloud security research, said the type of SaaS applications most vulnerable to DROWN are cloud storage, collaboration and HR related. Balupari said, Netskope began monitoring SaaS apps on Monday and has seen the number of vulnerable servers drop about 10 percent each day. u201cBy the end of today we expect the number of DROWN vulnerable servers to drop to 564,u201d Balupari said. u201cThat slow pace to patch servers is a concern. The rate at which we saw Heartbleed patched was much faster,u201d he said. Threatpost attempted to contact companies behind three apps identified by Netskope. One of the companyu2019s Threatpost attempted to contact shut down several years ago. The other two companies did not return email requests for comment. In its report, Skyhigh estimates 98.9 percent of enterprises use at least one DROWN-vulnerable cloud service. Balupari said a slower response to DROWN is likely attributed to the fact Heartbleed was a much easier vulnerability for an attacker to exploit compared to DROWN. Despite a slower response rate, Balupari said he expects over time to see the number of DROWN-vulnerable SaaS applications drop to levels similar to applications still vulnerable to attacks via FREAK (73), Logjam (42) and Poodle (7). Sebastian Schinzel, professor at Mu00fcnster University of Applied Sciences, Germany and one of the researchers that discovered the DROWN vulnerability, said he was bit surprised by the slow patch response to DROWN. u201cGiven DROWN is an easier patch deployment than Heartbleed, which requires an enterprise to take services offline to fix, I would of thought those numbers would be lower.u201d But he acknowledged that whether itu2019s Heartbleed, POODLE or DROWN there are always going to be a certain percentage of servers that just donu2019t get fixed. u201cHeartbleed and Logjam are still out there. DROWN is going to follow the same pattern,u201d Schinzel said. u201cLetu2019s say 33 percent of servers were vulnerable to DROWN and in a month the number drops to 3 percent. That 3 percent wonu2019t go away until the hardware dies.u201d Schinzel said researchers who discovered DROWN have been very pleased with the response they have seen from the DROWN alert it posted last week. Schinzel said he canu2019t confirm how many cloud services remain vulnerable. However, based on the numbers of companies that have scanned apps at test.drownattack.com u201cthe response has been good,u201d Schinzel said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383d4c6cefc42b002951c4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Five Questions About Aaron Barru2019s DEFCON (by Aaron Barr)", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/aaron-barrs-defcon-aaron-barr-081511/75545/", "Date" : "August 16, 2011 , 2:46 am", "Article" : "Editoru2019s note: Finding Aaron Barr at this yearu2019s DEFCON hacker conference in Las Vegas was like a giant game of u201cWhereu2019s Waldo.u201d Given the events of the past year, you can hardly blame him for keeping a low profile. First there wasu00a0the attack on him and his then-employer, HBGary Federal, his decision to part ways with HBGary, his work to rehabilitate his image and turn his personal misfortunes into a u2018teaching momentu2019 for the industry, and then the legal wrangling in recent weeksu00a0that threw cold water on hisu00a0plans to take part in a panel discussion about Anonymous at DEFCON. Barr was courted by numerous news outlets at the show, including the mainstream media. But he preferred, for the most part, to keep his counsel. So when Aaron offered to contribute his thoughts on this yearu2019s DEFCON to Threatpost, we jumped at it. Hereu2019s what he had to say. u00a0  Question 1: OK u2013 How weird was it being at DEFCON?  Being at the conference definitely felt odd. Here was a place where so many people knew this very public story about me.u00a0 I had no idea what to expect. Would I be confronted? Heckled or, possibly, welcomed?u00a0 I figured, going in, there were good odds that I would have some type of confrontation at some point. But it never came. In fact,u00a0 it was a great trip. Like all Blackhat/DEFCON trips, I hung out with friends, met new people, had lots of laughs, talked about the state of our industry, drank too much and didnu2019t sleep enough.u00a0 I had a handful of, u201cHey youu2019re Aaron Barr!u201d encountersu00a0 (typically following an introduction as u201cAaronu201d).u00a0 These included the two nice guys I shared a cab with to the airport.u00a0 One of them admitted he was in the AnonOps IRC channel during some of the initial heated conversations back in February.u00a0 He wouldnu2019t let me pay for my share of the cab ride, saying u201cI got it man you actually seem like a nice guy, plus I want to be able to say I paid for your cabu201d.u00a0 Other than those few occasions, it was I who felt anonymous (though maybe not as Anonymous as some). Question 2: Did Aaron Barr attend the Aaron Barr Panel? As you may know, my original plans were to sit on a DEFCON panel entitled u201cWhoever fights monsters: confronting Aaron Barr, Anonymous, and ourselves.u201d When circumstances prevented that, I determined to attend DEFCON anyway and, if possible, to attend the panel that would be, at least partly, about me. The panel started bright and early Saturday morning u2013 10 AM. (Thatu2019s early in u2018Vegas). I woke that morning and ran through numerous scenarios. I could be recognized during the talk and called out. I could end up being a distraction to the people on stage. The right course of action wasnu2019t clear. But, in the end, I was comforted by the fact that I had spent all day Friday at the conference and had moved about pretty much unrecognized. I thought I was pretty safe. u00a0 That morning, I donned my disguise: a baseball cap, shorts, t-shirt, and a healthy 5 ou2019clock shadow. Not too subtle, I know, but most people only know me by the photo of me in a business suit staring at the camera (the only picture available of me on the net.)u00a0 My disguise didnu2019t make me look like someone else u2013 just different from what everyone was expecting. And, as with many things in security, that ended up being good enough.u00a0 Feeling pretty safe, I went to the show, entered the conference hall and took a spot against the wall in the back. My impressions? u2013 I think the panel did a great job of framing the debate over Anonymous, which is really one about the benefits or necessity of anonymity, the impact of hacktivism and hacktivist groups on the state of security, and the implications of vigilantism and offensive cyber tactics. The discussion about the possibility of u201cbuilding a better Anonymousu201d u2013 one that gave voice and force to the dispossessed, but saved their fire power for problems we could all rally around (such as stopping child pornography) was excellent. Frankly, I wondered afterwards if the talk was not better without me! Thereu2019s no doubt that many of the topics discussed would not have been covered if I was on stage because of the legal restrictions that I faced.u00a0 At the same time, the focus might have been too much on me rather than on larger issues that were, frankly, more important.u00a0 A few people told me afterwards it was the most important talk of the conference, that it needed to happen and will hopefully be the start of a dialogue rather than just a conflict. Selfishly I would have liked to be up there on stage with Josh, Scot and Jericho. I would have loved the opportunity to convey a few misunderstandings about me.  Question 3: Did DEFCON change your thinking about Anonymous? I am, to use a phrase that Richard Thieme popularized at this yearu2019s show, au00a0 u201cworld as greyu201d kind of person. The issues raised by the attacks that were discussed on the panel are not settled law to me u2013 or even that clear cut. These are complex problems that donu2019t lend themselves to quick, reductive solutions. I have always been and still consider myself a liberal, but I am a liberal who has spent a career working in government and defense. I understand the importance of a solid defense and the necessity of a good offense. Some might be surprised to know I helped to lead a protest against Walmart in 2005 from putting up a store in my small town (we lost). I was, likewise, a vocal opponent of the war in Iraq from the beginning. But I also support the ideal of Western information dominance as a means of protecting our freedoms u2013 including the freedom to access information.u00a0 I believe that sometimes circumstances require more aggressive tactics in order to maintain stability. But Iu2019m also aware that such tactics can run dangerously close to the line, and are susceptible to corruption.u00a0 These are not ideological choices for me, but opinions born out of what I see as a necessity.u00a0 I believe one of the main areas of failure in cyber defense is we do not have good enough intelligence on threats.u00a0 Good threat intelligence requires comprehensive real-time collection and analysis on all threats, and in a constantly connected, social media-dominated world, this appears to some as an encroachment by governments or companies on privacy in the name of security.u00a0 In my opinion, well-intentioned efforts run afoul of some civil libertarians and privacy advocates because of the perception of encroachment. But with mediums like social networking Web sites, which enable easy manipulation of identity, it is getting difficult to separate the actual threats from the bystanders. Question 4: Anonymity: good or bad? Key to the Anonymous movement is the concept ofu2026wellu2026anonymity. Its members either physically or digitally masking their identity to protect themselves from harassment and prosecution and to focus the movement on the ideals rather than the people.u00a0 This is not a new concept and is at the center of most of the cyber issues we deal with today a problem often discussed as the u201cattributionu201d problem of cyber threats. Related to activism, anonymity is both critically important and inevitably corrupting. No one can deny the importance of anonymity in places with extreme information control and oppression, such as Syria, China and Iran, to name but a few. In these cases efforts to push complete solutions for real identity are counter-productive to human rights.u00a0 In short: in parts of the world where there is a very real threat to life and liberty as a consequence of sharing opinions and experiences, anonymity is essential. In areas with more personal freedoms and protection the benefits of anonymity is debatable -especially when you consider the ways in which anonymity has provided a means for some to commit crimes, sow chaos, and bully, and harass those with opposing views.  The complexity increases when we consider what is protest behavior vs. criminal or bullying behavior online.u00a0 One thing is certain: anonymity has removed personal accountability within free societies. That lack of accountability has led to a surge in criminal activity and reckless behavior. Combine Anonymity with social media, and you can quickly find yourself in the midst of an online (or IRL) mob comprised of distributed and detached individuals with divergent agendas (if any).u00a0 I think thereu2019s a clear line that can be drawn between online protest movements and efforts to expose important information u2013 but that its an easy line to smudge or just step over. The Wikileaks case is a great example of that. Many people view the siteu2019s publication of the u201cCollateral Murderu201d video as an important and necessary act of civil disobedience and whistle blowing that exposed apparently criminal acts by US troops fighting in Iraq. Wikileaks subsequent release of hundreds of thousands of classified diplomatic cables was another matter entirely, and one in which anonymity, technology and means of massive distribution were used to serve destructive rather than constructive goals.  The need for anonymity for in the latter case is critical to protect whistleblowers or dissidents.u00a0 In the case of the former u2013 online protests u2013 I believe anonymity and the lack of personal accountability is absolutely corrupting what I think are some of the key tenets of lawful protest. These include personal sacrifice and a willingness for individuals to stand up and be associated with a cause or idea with boots on the ground, as it were. u00a0 I donu2019t think a DDOS is equivalent to a digital sit-in. A DDoS is more like a digital sucker punch thrown from a dark alley. Sure, taking part in a DDoS attack is against the law, but many of the civil rights and voting rights protests were technically violations of the (Jim Crow) laws that held sway in the South. Many thousands were arrested for their participation in these civil actions. So Iu2019d say: u201cif your desire to protest for a cause doesnu2019t encompass the possibility that you, personally, might be disadvantaged by doing so, maybe you should rethink your decision to protest at all.u201d Question 5: u2018Building a better Anonymous.u2019 Is that possible? This was one of the key takeaways from the panel discussion. The idea seems to be to take the ideology, which has broader appeal, and wrap it in an organization that is more measured in its attacks, more discriminatory about its targets, and more careful about compromising non-target information, especially on users.u00a0 My opinion is that this would be no small feat.u00a0 I sat in the audience (right beside an unwitting Gregg Housh u2013 BTW) for the Saturday evening session on Anonymous presented by Backtrace security where the dialogue became much more heated, sarcastic, and even combative.u00a0 During this one hour session there was yelling, chanting, singing, even a visit by a notorious Internet mascot. It was an example of the level of disruption and sarcasm Anonymous is willing to stoop to in order to get a laugh, and u2013 not coincidentally- to drown out criticism.u00a0 This behavior is highly hypocritical for an organization whose chief pillar seems to be freedom of speech, opinion, and individuality. u00a0 Anonymous has demonstrated an ability to be a serious activist organization during Operation Egypt and Tunisia. It showed its more capricious, childish side with the u201cRequest a DDOSu201d and u201cTelephone DDOSu201d promotions. It looked like a straight-up criminal organization with its attacks on Law Enforcement and Sony.u00a0 For Anonymous to mature would require severing or alienating part of the collective and dropping the sensationalism that has captured media attention and the publicu2019s fear. Maturing, in other words, would require Anonymous to change what seems to be its essence.u00a0 That doesnu2019t mean that it cannot be done, or shouldnu2019t be done.u00a0 Certainly the world would welcome a less destructive and more focused Anonymous.u00a0 And who among us would be distraught if the serial haters at the Westboro Baptist Church found themselves on the wrong end of Anonymousu2019s LOIC DDoS tool? But, as the group, itself, admits: Anonymous is in it for the Lulz, so such an change would seemu00a0 to run against the grain of the group.Rather than debate whether there could be a u201cbetter Anonymous,u201d maybe we should debate whether we need an Anonymous at all? Or, to ask the question another way: is there a place for hacktivism or digital vigilantism in an increasingly digital world?u00a0 What are the benefits of such groups?u00a0 What are the societal costs? There are no easy answers to these questions. And, in the end, the questions are academic. Regardless of whether Anonymous should exist, it will.u00a0 Regardless of how we feel about Anonymousu2019s style of hacktivism, it will remain as an outlet for individual and collective anger because itu2019su00a0 effective. These attacks do appear to have increased security awareness, but it might not have been the kind of benefit that Anonymous intended.u00a0 Anonymous attacks in concert with Stuxnet and very public attacks on RSA and a variety of other companies has made cyber securityu00a0 headline news.u00a0 Board rooms now regularly discuss corporate vulnerabilities and mitigation strategies.u00a0 In turn, they are spending more on security as a result of these threats. That is a good thing right?u00a0 Maybe. But I find it ironic that the white hats Anonymous wants to punish seem to be the ones benefiting the most.u00a0 In the end does this make us more secure?u00a0 I donu2019t believe so.u00a0 Security is a complex issue that goes beyond properly configured web servers, patch updates, and strong passwords.u00a0 The problems we face are not going to be fixed by a quick influx of cash or focus of attention. They require fundamental changes in our use of technology within business operations and personal use.u00a0 Right now the extra money appears to mostly be spent on assessments, hardening, detection, and incident response.u00a0 Spending in these areas is important, but ultimately these measures are Band -Aids applied to the fundamental weaknesses in IT groups, which are under pressure to implement new technologies that increase productivity and drive down costs.  " }n"
%%%ImageTragick2016——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597106cefc42d78dc5a7f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Facebook Paid $880,000 in Bug Bounties in 2017", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/facebook-paid-880000-bug-bounties-2017", "Date" : "January 12, 2018", "Article" : "Facebook received over 12,000 vulnerability submissions in 2017 and ended up paying $880,000 in bug bounties to security researchers. Of the large number of received submissions, however, just over 400 reports were found valid during the bug bounty programu2019s sixth year. Last year, Facebook also paid larger bounties to the submitting researchers, as the average reward per submission increased to almost $1,900, up from $1,675 in 2016.  The number of security researchers participating in the companyu2019s bug bounty program also increased, Jack Whitton, Security Engineer with Facebook's Product Security team, explains in a blog post. 32% of the researchers who received a reward last year submitted for the first time in 2017. The largest bounty the company has paid to date is a $40,000 reward for ImageTragick, a remote code execution vulnerability introduced by the ImageMagick image processing suite. Last year, the company also paid a $10,000 bounty for a critical vulnerability that could result in deleting any photo from the social media network. The largest number of valid submissions in 2017, Facebook says, came out of India. The United States ended up on the second position, followed by Trinidad & Tobago in the third place. Facebook acknowledged more than 100 researchers as part of the bug bounty program in 2017.u00a0 u201cGoing forward, we are going to take a number of things into consideration: dollar amount, submission validity, and more. Weu2019re doing this to continue to encourage high-quality submissions, and we will be offering new perks to our top participants such as swag and prizes, access to exclusive events and new features,u201d Whitton explains.  He also reveals that Facebook is planning on investing more resources into getting more timely responses and payments to researchers in 2018.  Researchers interested in submitting reports as part of Facebooku2019s bug bounty program are encouraged to follow the best practices the company is listing at facebook.com/whitehat/resources.  u201cAfter celebrating our 6th anniversary, we paid out over $880,000 to researchers last year, bringing our total paid out to over $6,300,000,u201d Whitton says.  Facebook launched its bug bounty program in 2011 and paid over $5 million to researchers by October 2016. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35980a6cefc42d78dc5d09" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Yahoo Pays Out Thousands of Dollars for Serious Flaws", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/yahoo-pays-out-thousands-dollars-serious-flaws", "Date" : "June 05, 2017", "Article" : "Yahoo has awarded thousands of dollars to a couple of researchers who managed to find serious vulnerabilities in the companyu2019s systems. The bug bounty hunters published blog posts over the weekend describing their findings. An expert who uses the online moniker u201cTh3G3nt3lmanu201d said he received $5,500 from Yahoo for a remote code execution vulnerability in Apache Struts 2. The white hat hacker discovered the flaw on a Yahoo subdomain hosting a login page for a Selligent marketing product. The security hole is CVE-2017u20135638, a Struts 2 vulnerability that malicious actors started exploiting in March, shortly after a patch was released. The weakness has been found to affect the products and systems of many companies, including Cisco, VMware and AT&T. According to Th3G3nt3lman, the initial exploit published for CVE-2017u20135638 did not work on the Yahoo website, but he found a different exploit on Twitter u2013 one that can bypass web application firewalls (WAFs) u2013 that could have been used to achieve remote code execution. Cryptography and information security enthusiast Sam Curry also published a blog post over the weekend describing a critical vulnerability in a Yahoo-owned system. Unlike Th3G3nt3lman, who found the RCE flaw on a Yahoo domain, Curry and a bounty hunter known online as u201cdawgygu201d discovered a bug in the video streaming website SnackTV, which Yahoo took over in late 2014 with the acquisition of Media Group One. In addition to some low severity issues, Curry and dawgyg noticed that the SnackTV website had been affected by the ImageMagick vulnerability known as ImageTragick. The flaw in the popular image processing suite was disclosed in May 2016, when it had already been exploited in the wild. The hackers noticed that the server in question was not vulnerable to the generic ImageTragick attack, but after some tweaking they managed to get an exploit to work and achieved command injection. Yahoo patched the flaw within two days after learning of its existence and awarded the experts $3,000. Yahoo has been informed of several ImageMagick vulnerabilities, and several months ago the company decided to stop using the library after a researcher discovered a critical flaw that could have been exploited to obtain sensitive data belonging to Yahoo Mail users. Curry reported his findings to Yahoo last month, which suggests that while Yahoo removed ImageMagick from some services, the software is still present on some of its websites. This was not the only vulnerability disclosed by Curry to Yahoo in recent weeks. In May, he published two other blog posts describing cross-site scripting (XSS) and other weaknesses that earned him a total of more than $2,000. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598106cefc42d78dc5d17" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Facebook Vulnerability Allowed Removal of Any Video", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/facebook-vulnerability-allowed-removal-any-video", "Date" : "January 24, 2017", "Article" : "Facebook has awarded a researcher $10,000 for finding a serious vulnerability that could have been exploited remotely to delete any video from the social media website. The flaw was disclosed on Monday by Dan Melamed, but it was reported to Facebook and patched last summer. The researcher noticed that videos uploaded to a public event page on Facebook had an ID assigned to them. By uploading a video to an event page they controlled and replacing its ID with the ID of a targeted video, attackers could attach the victimu2019s video to their own post. Then, all they needed to do was delete the post on their own page, and the victimu2019s video would get deleted as well. The ID of a video can be easily obtained from its URL. The attacker could intercept their own video upload request and replace the ID with the one of the targeted video. While the server responded with an error, the targeted video did get attached to the attackeru2019s post, allowing them to remove it from Facebook by deleting the post from their event page. In addition to deleting a video, the same technique could have been used to disable comments on a targeted video. This could have been done by using the u201cTurn off commentingu201d option from the same dropdown menu as the u201cDelete Postu201d function.  It took Facebook only a few days to patch the vulnerability after receiving Melamedu2019s report. The social media giant decided to award the researcher a $10,000 bounty for his findings. A similar flaw was found at around the same time by researcher Pranav Hivarekar. The method discovered by Hivarekar involved deleting a video after adding its identifier to a video included in a comment. Once the comment was deleted, the original video would be removed as well. Facebook has so far paid out more than $5 million since the launch of its bug bounty program in 2011. The largest reward was given recently to Russian security researcher Andrey Leonov, who earned $40,000 for finding a way to exploit the ImageMagick vulnerability known as ImageTragick for remote code execution. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598266cefc42d78dc5d4a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Facebook Awards $40,000 Bounty for ImageTragick Hack", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/facebook-awards-40000-bounty-imagetragick-hack", "Date" : "January 18, 2017", "Article" : "A researcher claims to have received a $40,000 bounty from Facebook for finding a remote code execution vulnerability introduced by the ImageMagick image processing suite. The said ImageMagick flaw, tracked as CVE-2016-3714 and dubbed u201cImageTragick,u201d was disclosed in May 2016. The security hole had already been exploited in the wild and security firms soon started seeing an increasing number of attempts to leverage the flaw for reconnaissance and remote access. Since ImageMagick is used by several image-processing plugins and is present in many web applications, researchers immediately began looking for ImageTragick in the services of major companies, including Yahoo. Russian security researcher Andrey Leonov discovered recently that Facebook had also used a vulnerable version of ImageMagick. The expert noticed a Facebook request that included a parameter named u201cpicture,u201d whose value was a URL. The image fetched by this parameter was converted before being displayed to the user. After attempting to find server-side request forgery (SSRF) and XML external entity (XXE) flaws, Leonov tested the request for the ImageTragick bug. He determined that while the request designed to fetch the image file was not vulnerable, the image converter had used a vulnerable version of the ImageMagick library. The vulnerability was reported to Facebook on October 16 and it was patched three days later. Leonov disclosed some technical details about the flaw, but he did not publish the full proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit that he provided to Facebook. The expert said he did not attempt to go too deep with his exploitation attempt in an effort to avoid violating Facebooku2019s responsible disclosure policy. Nevertheless, it appears Facebook determined that the security hole was critical and awarded the researcher $40,000. Facebook has confirmed to SecurityWeek that this is the largest payout to date. The company said it had updated the relevant systems and ensured that no other systems made use of the vulnerable code within hours after the report was confirmed. There is no indication that anyone had attempted to exploit the vulnerability before it was patched. Until now, the largest known bug bounty had been awarded to Reginaldo Silva, who in 2014 earned $33,500 for an XXE vulnerability.u00a0Facebook has paid out more than $5 million since the launch of its bug bounty program in 2011. *Updated with information from Facebook " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598e56cefc42d78dc5ee0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Yahoo Paid Out $1.6 Million in Bug Bounty Program", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/yahoo-paid-out-16-million-bug-bounty-program", "Date" : "May 18, 2016", "Article" : "Yahoo has paid out a total of more than $1.6 million since the launch of its public bug bounty program in 2013, the tech giant reported on Tuesday. Yahoo teamed up with HackerOne in October 2013 and launched a proper bug bounty program after researchers complained that they only got low-value vouchers and Yahoo-themed swag for reporting serious vulnerabilities. Bug bounty hunters can now earn up to $15,000 for critical flaws found in the companyu2019s domains and properties, which include Yahoo and Flickr websites and apps, Brightroll, Flurry, Media Group One, Polyvore and Yahoo Small Business. In July 2015, the company reported that it had paid out over $1 million since the launch of its program, and now the total amount has increased to more than $1.6 million. According to HackerOne, Yahoo received more than 12,000 vulnerability reports from 2,200 hackers. The company said 19 percent of these reports, roughly 2,200, were eligible for a payment. u201cSecurity is an investment, and Yahoo has invested in some of the best pen testers in the business. But like any investment portfolio, itu2019s smart to diversify,u201d said Bob Lord, Yahoou2019s chief information security officer. u201cToday, one of the best investments a company can make is to crowd-source the best and brightest in the pen test community to find security issues before criminals do.u201d HackerOne reported that Yahoo has one of the most successful bug bounty programs on its platform and it regularly ranks in the Top 10. The list of researchers rewarded by Yahoo this year includes Jouko Pynnu00f6nen of Finland-based software company Klikki Oy, who received $10,000 after reporting a stored cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability in Yahoo Mail, and researcher Behrouz Sadeghipour, who earned $2,000 for demonstrating that the recently disclosed ImageTragick vulnerability could be exploited on the Polyvore website. In comparison, as part of their bug bounty programs, Facebook has paid out over $4.3 million since 2011 and Google awarded hackers more than $6 million since 2010. Related Reading: MIT Launches Bug Bounty Program Related Reading: Uber Offers up to $10,000 in Bug Bounty Program " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599006cefc42d78dc5f0e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Yahoo Rewards Researcher for ImageMagick Hack", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/yahoo-rewards-researcher-imagemagick-hack", "Date" : "May 12, 2016", "Article" : "Yahoo rewarded a bug bounty hunter after he demonstrated that a recently disclosed ImageMagick vulnerability could be exploited for remote code execution on a website acquiredu00a0by the companyu00a0last year. Earlier this month, researchers revealed that the popular image-processing suite ImageMagick is plagued by a serious vulnerability that allows attackers to execute arbitrary code on vulnerable servers by uploading a specially crafted image file. The flaw, tracked as CVE-2016-3714 and dubbed u201cImageTragick,u201d can be exploited to target websites that allow users to upload images, such as profile pictures. Some of the exploits seen in the wild are only designed for reconnaissance, but security firms have also spotted more dangerous exploits that can give attackers full access to targeted servers. California-based researcher Behrouz Sadeghipour discovered last week that the ImageMagick vulnerability plagued Polyvore, a community-powered social commerce website acquired by Yahoo last year. Since Polyvore allows users to upload profile pictures, Sadeghipour uploaded an ImageTragick proof-of-concept (PoC) file to show how an attacker could have executed arbitrary code on the server. Yahoo was notified on May 4 and patched the vulnerability within three hours. Since the Polyvore website was recently added to Yahoou2019s bug bounty program, the company awarded Sadeghipour $2,000 for his findings. The expert believes the flaw should have been worth more considering the access it provided. Yahoo told SecurityWeek that the primary factors in determining the amount of a bug bounty are the depth and impact of the vulnerability. Yahoo is offering rewards of up to $15,000 as part of its bug bounty program. The company said it paid out $1.6 million in bug bounties over the last two years. This was not the first time Sadeghipour reported vulnerabilities to Yahoo. In the past, he informed the company of a SSRF (server-side request forgery) vulnerability in its image processing system, and a Yahoo Toolbar issue that generated a stored XSS (cross-site scripting) flaw in several major online services. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35992b6cefc42d78dc5f55" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Attackers Exploit Critical ImageMagick Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/attackers-exploit-critical-imagemagick-vulnerability", "Date" : "May 04, 2016", "Article" : "Researchers have discovered several vulnerabilities in the popular image processing suite ImageMagick, including a serious remote code execution flaw that has been exploited in the wild. ImageMagick is a free and open-source software package that allows users to display, convert and edit image files. The ImageMagick library is used by many image-processing plugins, which means that the software is present in a large number of web applications. While analyzing a flaw found by a researcher who uses the online moniker u201cStewie,u201d Nikolay Ermishkin from the Mail.Ru security team discovered a remote code execution vulnerability (CVE-2016-3714) related to insuficient filtering of shell characters. The vulnerability, dubbed u201cImageTragick,u201d can be exploited by uploading a specially crafted file to a website that processes images using ImageMagick. An attacker can create an exploit file and assign it an image extension, such as .png, in order to bypass the targeted siteu2019s file type checks. ImageMagick determines the file type based on so-called u201cmagic bytes,u201d the first few bytes of a file that are specific to each file type. Once it detects that itu2019s not an actual .png, ImageMagick converts the file and the malicious code is executed in the process, allowing the attacker to gain access to the targeted server. ImageTragick: Upload(meme.png)->(IM detects non-png format based on file magic)->(IM uses insecure delegates to decode)->Shells! u2014 HD Moore (@hdmoore) May 3, 2016    An exploit for this vulnerability is publicly available and experts say it has already been leveraged in the wild. ImageMagick developers attempted to patch the vulnerability with the release of versions 6.9.3-9 and 7.0.1-0 on April 30, but researchers say the fix is incomplete. Another patch will be included in ImageMagick 7.0.1-1 and 6.9.3-10, which are expected to become available by this weekend. In the meantime, users have been advised to disable vulnerable coders by modifying their policy files. Another mitigation involves verifying that magic bytes correspond to image file types before sending the file to ImageMagick for processing. Other vulnerabilities found in ImageMagick can be exploited to move, read or delete files (CVE-2016-3716, CVE-2016-3717 and CVE-2016-3715), and for server-side request forgery, or SSRF, attacks (CVE-2016-3718). Related Reading: Code Execution Flaw Found in Lhasa Decompression Library Related Reading: Remote Code Execution Flaw Patched in glibc Library Related Reading: "Libotr" Library Flaw Exposes Popular IM Apps " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38373e6cefc42b0029494f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Info on 500K Users Doxxed in Hacking Forum Dump", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/info-on-500k-users-doxxed-in-hacking-forum-dump/118114/", "Date" : "May 16, 2016 , 12:48 pm", "Article" : "An underground forum called Nulled.io that helped users share stolen credentials, software cracks, and leaked content was hacked earlier this month, spilling a glut of information, including usersu2019 email addresses, encrypted passwords, and IP addresses, among other details. According to researchers at Risk Based Security who reported the breach last week, a 1.3 GB tar.gz file, which expanded to a massive 9.45 GB SQL file was leaked on May 6.u00a0A deluge of information relating to the message board was leaked, including details on roughly 536,064 registered users u2013 and 800,593 personal messages between them, according to the firm. The site, which ironically goes byu00a0the tagline u201cExpect the unexpected,u201d is currently offline. A placeholder message claims the service is experiencing u201ctemporary unscheduled maintenance.u201d  Usernames for patrons of the site were leaked; along with the dates they registered, IP addresses they used to register for the service, and their encrypted passwords. Information on how some users paid, including payment methods, PayPal emails, dates, and costs, listed in table form, were leaked as well. Other potentially personally identifiable information, including 2.2 million posts, many which were previously private and part of a VIP section, were dumped as well, along with API credentials for three payment gateways, and more thanu00a0907,000 authentication logs. According to Risk Based Security, information from those logs u2013 including geolocation data, member ID and IP addresses, and user donation records u2013 could be cobbled together and matched with member ID numbers. Technically 5,582 purchase records and 12,600 invoices u2013 which link back to those donation records u2013 were also dumped, according to the firm. Itu2019s unclear exactly how the forum was breached but as Risk Based Security points out, the site was running a type of forum, IP.Board, made by Invasion Power Services, Inc., that has several documented vulnerabilities. The firm notes thatu00a0185 total vulnerabilities exist in IP.Board, 92 whichu00a0donu2019t have a CVE. According to a blog post by the firm last Tuesday, the last user to log into the forum did so that previous Friday, May 6, suggesting the breach may have occurred late that night. Later that weekend, Daniel Cid, CTO/Founder of Sucuri, a web security firm, warned on Twitter that forums could be a u201csweet spotu201d for attackers looking to exploit the ImageTragick vulnerability, adding thatu00a0he had noticed some attempts against IP.Board, in addition tou00a0vBulletin forums.  Vulnerabilities in ImageMagick, a type ofu00a0open source image processing software, were outlined earlier this month. Attackers could leverage the vulnerabilities by affixing malicious code to an image file that the software processes and in turn, triggers remote code execution. For what itu2019s worth, while combing through the Nulled.IO database, Risk Based Security noticed that 365u00a0users who accessed the siteu00a0used .edu addresses. Eight other users accessed the site via .gov addresses, and emails stemming fromu00a0government domains in Jordan, Brazil, Malaysia, and Turkey. When it comes to the leaked information, it likely wonu2019t beu00a0too difficult for anyone, law enforcement included, to connect the dots. u201cWhen services such as Nulled.IO are compromised and data is leaked, often it exposes members who prefer to remain anonymous and hide behind screen names,u201d the firm wrote Tuesday, u201cBy simply searching by email or IP addresses, it can become evident who might be behind various malicious deeds.u201d u201cWith this being such a comprehensive dump of data it offers up a very good set of information for matching a member ID to the attached invoices, transactions and other content such as member messages and posts,u201d the firm warns. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38379a6cefc42b002949f3" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Public Exploits Available for ImageMagick Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/public-exploits-available-for-imagemagick-vulnerabilities/117835/", "Date" : "May 4, 2016 , 12:17 pm", "Article" : "Within hours of the disclosure of serious vulnerabilities in ImageMagick, public exploits were available increasing the risk to thousands of websites that make use of the open source image-processing software. Attackers can append malicious code to an image file that ImageMagick will process without question, leading to, in the case of one of the vulnerabilities, remote code execution. The scope of the issue is severe since image-processing plugins such as PHP imagick, Ruby rmagick and Ruby paperclip, and nodeJS imagemagick among others are built on top of the ImageMagick library. Researcher Ryan Huber was among the first on Tuesday to publicly disclose that ImageMagick had a problem. A researcher from the Mail.ru team in Russia who goes by the handle Stewie found the flaw, while Nikolay Ermishkin, also of the Mail.ru team, found the remote code execution issue. u201cWe have collectively determined that these vulnerabilities are available to individuals other than the person(s) who discovered them,u201d Huber wrote on the ImageTragick website, a landing page complete with FAQ on the bugs. u201cAn unknowable number of people having access to these vulnerabilities makes this a critical issue for everyone using this software.u201d Researcher Dan Tentler yesterday afternoon tweeted that he had come up with a working proof-of-concept exploit, and today an exploit developed by Ermishkin was posted to the OSS-Security mailing list.  Huber and Ermishkin warned in their respective posts that websites that process user-submitted images are particularly at risk to public exploits. Ermishkin privately disclosed the bugs to ImageMagicku2019s developers who pushed out a fix on April 30; Ermishkin, however, said the fix was incomplete and work continues on a new patch. ImageMagick, meanwhile, yesterday posted a mitigation to its forums. They suggest adding the following code to the ImageMagick policy.xml file. <policy domain=u201dcoderu201d rights=u201dnoneu201d pattern=u201dEPHEMERALu201d />n<policy domain=u201dcoderu201d rights=u201dnoneu201d pattern=u201dHTTPSu201d />n<policy domain=u201dcoderu201d rights=u201dnoneu201d pattern=u201dMVGu201d />n<policy domain=u201dcoderu201d rights=u201dnoneu201d pattern=u201dMSLu201d /> u201cWe have secured these coders in ImageMagick 7.0.1-1 and 6.9.3-10 (available by this weekend) by sanitizing the HTTPS parameters and preventing indirect reads with this policy: <policy domain=u201dpathu201d rights=u201dnoneu201d pattern=u201d@*u201d />u201d ImageMagick said. u201cIf you require the HTTPS, MVG, or MSL coders, the above policy is sufficient to prevent exploits.u201d Huber also suggested a pair of mitigations: that users verify that image files begin with the proper u201cmagic bytesu201d that correspond to image file types before ImageMagick processes them; and the use of policy files to disable vulnerable ImageMagick coders. The vulnerabilities, covered in CVE-2016-3714, are described as insufficient shell character filtering. From the advisory: " }n"
%%%OpenSSL2009——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597346cefc42d78dc5adc" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Drone Maker DJI, Researcher Quarrel Over Bug Bounty Program", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/drone-maker-dji-researcher-quarrel-over-bug-bounty-program", "Date" : "November 17, 2017", "Article" : "China-based Da-Jiang Innovations (DJI), one of the worldu2019s largest drone makers, has accused a researcher of accessing sensitive information without authorization after the expert bashed the companyu2019s bug bounty program. DJI announced the launch of a bug bounty program in late August and offered between $100 and $30,000 for vulnerabilities that allow the creation of backdoors, and ones that expose sensitive customer information, source code or encryption keys. Bug bounty hunters started analyzing the companyu2019s systems for vulnerabilities, but didnu2019t know exactly where to look for them as DJI had failed to clarify exactly which of its assets were in scope. Kevin Finisterre, a security researcher who specializes in drones, discovered that DJI had inadvertently made public SSL and firmware AES keys in source code published on GitHub. He also found keys for AWS buckets storing flight logs and customer identity documents, including passports, driveru2019s licenses, and state identification. Finisterre said others had found unprotected AWS buckets storing, among other things, personal data and images of damaged drones submitted by customers. u201cThere were serious ramifications to the things that were found on the DJI AWS servers,u201d the researcher said. u201cOne of the first things I did to judge the impact of the exposure was grep for u2018.milu2019 and u2018.govu2019, u2018gov.auu2019. Immediately flight logs for a number of potentially sensitive locations came out. It should be noted that newer logs, and PII seemed to be encrypted with a static OpenSSL password, so theoretically some of the data was at least loosely protected from prying eyes. Unfortunately the rest of the server side security renders this point moot.u201d After reporting his findings to DJI via its bug bounty program, Finisterre was informed that he qualified for the maximum reward, $30,000. However, the company told him that in order to receive the bug bounty, he would have to sign an agreement. u201cI wonu2019t go into too much detail, but the agreement that was put in front of me by DJI in essence did not offer researchers any sort of protection,u201d Finisterre said. u201cFor me personally the wording put my right to work at risk, and posed a direct conflicts of interest to many things including my freedom of speech. It almost seemed like a joke. It was pretty clear the entire u2018Bug Bountyu2019 program was rushed based on this alone.u201d While the researcher was trying to negotiate the non-disclosure agreement (NDA) via a DJI representative in the United States, the drone manufactureru2019s legal department in China sent him a notice that he may be facing charges under the controversial Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA). After consulting with lawyers who told him that DJIu2019s agreement was u201cextremely riskyu201d and u201clikely crafted in bad faith to silence anyone that signed it,u201d the researcher decided to walk away from the bug bounty. He also decided to make his findings public, including some of the communications with DJI representatives during this process. In response, DJI published a statement saying that itu2019s investigating Finisterreu2019s unauthorized access to its servers, and accused the researcher of publishing confidential communications with DJI employees. u201cDJI implemented its Security Response Center to encourage independent security researchers to responsibly report potential vulnerabilities,u201d the company said in a statement. u201cDJI asks researchers to follow standard terms for bug bounty programs, which are designed to protect confidential data and allow time for analysis and resolution of a vulnerability before it is publicly disclosed. The hacker in question refused to agree to these terms, despite DJIu2019s continued attempts to negotiate with him, and threatened DJI if his terms were not met.u201d The infosec community is split on this issue u2013 some have taken Finisterreu2019s side pointing to DJIu2019s failure to specify exactly what its bug bounty covered and what researchers were allowed to do. Others, however, have sided with DJI, noting that the bounty hunter shouldnu2019t have accessed the data and that the agreement was reasonable. Following Finisterreu2019s disclosure, DJI provided more information on its bug bounty program, including scope and requirements for disclosing flaws. u201cDJI understands the importance of public disclosure of unknown or novel security flaws to build a common base of knowledge within the security community and to build a safer internet,u201d the company said. u201cDJI is committed to disclosing such information to the fullest extent possible. However, DJI in its sole discretion will decide when and how, and to what extent of details, to disclose to the public the bugs/vulnerabilities reported by you.u201d DJI says it has paid out u201cthousands of dollarsu201d to nearly a dozen researchers since the launch of its bug bounty program. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597606cefc42d78dc5b4f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "'Optionsbleed' Flaw Causes Apache to Leak Data", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/optionsbleed-flaw-causes-apache-leak-data", "Date" : "September 20, 2017", "Article" : "A vulnerability found in Apache HTTP Server (httpd) can cause certain systems to leak potentially sensitive data in response to HTTP OPTIONS requests, a researcher warned. The flaw was discovered by freelance journalist and security researcher Hanno Bu00f6ck, who has dubbed it u201cOptionsbleed.u201d Despite having a fancy name that is similar to the critical OpenSSL vulnerability known as Heartbleed due to them both u201cbleedingu201d memory contents, Optionsbleed is not as severe or as widespread. Bu00f6ck was analyzing HTTP methods in an effort to determine if they have any vulnerabilities when he noticed that requests with the OPTIONS method, which allows a client to ask a server which HTTP methods it supports, were returning what appeared to be corrupted data via the u201cAllowu201d header. Typically, responses to OPTIONS requests should contain a list of supported HTTP methods in the Allow header (e.g. u201cAllow: GET, POST, OPTIONS, HEADu201d). However, some of the responses to the researcheru2019s requests looked like this: Allow: POST,OPTIONS,,HEAD,:09:44 GMT Allow: GET,HEAD,OPTIONS,,HEAD,,HEAD,,HEAD,, HEAD,,HEAD,,HEAD,,HEAD,POST,,HEAD,, HEAD,!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" Allow: GET,HEAD,OPTIONS,=write HTTP/1.0,HEAD,,HEAD,POST,,HEAD,TRACE Further analysis revealed that Apache leaked server memory due to a use-after-free bug. The flaw, which could result in the exposure of sensitive data, has been assigned the CVE identifier CVE-2017-9798. What makes the Optionsbleed flaw less severe is the fact that the targeted system needs to be configured in a certain way for an attack to work, and the response doesnu2019t always contain other data. Requests sent by the expert to the Alexa Top 1 Million websites resulted in corrupted Allow headers from only 466 of them. Apache is one of the most widely used web servers. Data from Netcraft shows that Apache was used by roughly 40 percent of the top million most visited websites in August. With help from Apache developer Jacob Champion, Bu00f6ck determined that the flaw only affects specific configurations. u201cApache supports a configuration directive Limit that allows restricting access to certain HTTP methods to a specific user. And if one sets the Limit directive in an .htaccess file for an HTTP method that's not globally registered in the server then the corruption happens,u201d the researcher explained. u201cSetting a Limit directive for any invalid HTTP method in an .htaccess file caused a use after free error in the construction of the Allow header which was also detectable with Address Sanitizer.u201d While the security bug does not pose a risk for a majority of websites using Apache, it could represent a serious problem in shared hosting environments. u201cThe corruption is not limited to a single virtual host. One customer of a shared hosting provider could deliberately create an .htaccess file causing this corruption hoping to be able to extract secret data from other hosts on the same system,u201d Bu00f6ck warned. The expert pointed out that the leaks were evident in a paper on support for HTTP methods that was published in May 2014, roughly one month after Heartbleed came to light, but no one noticed the problem at the time. Bu00f6ck said the Apache security team could not provide an estimated date for when a patch would become available, so he decided to make his findings public before a fix was included in a new Apache httpd release. Optionsbleed can still be patched by making source code changes. Several Linux distributions have also started releasing fixes. Bu00f6ck has released a proof-of-concept (PoC) script for Optionsbleed and Sophos has published a blog post with a detailed technical description of the flaw. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597776cefc42d78dc5b90" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patches Flaws Found With Google Fuzzer", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-patches-flaws-found-google-fuzzer", "Date" : "November 02, 2017", "Article" : "OpenSSL updates released on Thursday patch two low and medium severity vulnerabilities discovered using Googleu2019s open source OSS-Fuzz fuzzing service. The medium severity flaw patched with the release of OpenSSL 1.1.0g and 1.0.2m is CVE-2017-3736. Described as a carry propagating bug in the x86_64 Montgomery squaring procedure, the security hole affects processors that support BMI1, BMI2 and ADX extensions (e.g. Intel Broadwell 5th generation and later, or AMD Ryzen). These types of flaws could allow an attacker to recover encryption keys and access protected communications, but OpenSSL developers believe an attack is difficult to carry out. u201cAnalysis suggests that attacks against RSA and DSA as a result of this defect would be very difficult to perform and are not believed likely. Attacks against DH are considered just feasible (although very difficult) because most of the work necessary to deduce information about a private key may be performed offline,u201d OpenSSL said in an advisory. u201cThe amount of resources required for such an attack would be very significant and likely only accessible to a limited number of attackers. An attacker would additionally need online access to an unpatched system using the target private key in a scenario with persistent DH parameters and a private key that is shared between multiple clients,u201d it added. Developers pointed out that the vulnerability is very similar to CVE-2015-3193, which was patched in December 2015, and CVE-2017-3732, one of the four security holes fixed this January. However, they believe CVE-2017-3736 needs to be treated separately. The second vulnerability patched with the release of OpenSSL 1.1.0g and 1.0.2m is a low severity issue that could lead to an out-of-bounds (OOB) read. The flaw, tracked as CVE-2017-3735, has existed since 2006 and it was disclosed in August. While a source code fix was made available in August, developers believed it did not deserve an update due to its low severity. The flaws resolved in the latest versions of OpenSSL were discovered using OSS-Fuzz, an open source fuzzing service launched by Google in December 2016. In the first months, the fuzzer helped find 264 potential security issues in 47 open source projects. This is the fourth round of OpenSSL updates released this year, but only two of the previous updates, from January and February, included security patches. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597776cefc42d78dc5b92" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "First OpenSSL Updates in 2018 Patch Three Flaws", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/first-openssl-updates-2018-patch-three-flaws", "Date" : "March 27, 2018", "Article" : "The first round of security updates released in 2018 for OpenSSL patch a total of three vulnerabilities, but none of them appears to be serious. OpenSSL versions 1.1.0h and 1.0.2o patch CVE-2018-0739, a denial-of-service (DoS) vulnerability discovered using Googleu2019s OSS-Fuzz service, which has helped find several flaws in OpenSSL in the past period. The security hole, rated u201cmoderate,u201d is related to constructed ASN.1 types with a recursive definition. u201cConstructed ASN.1 types with a recursive definition (such as can be found in PKCS7) could eventually exceed the stack given malicious input with excessive recursion,u201d the OpenSSL Project said in its advisory. Another moderate severity flaw, which only affects the 1.1.0 branch, is CVE-2018-0733. This is an implementation bug in the PA-RISC CRYPTO_memcmp function, and it allows an attacker to forge authenticated messages easier than it should be. The OpenSSL Project learned about this vulnerability in early March from IBM. Only HP-UX PA-RISC systems are impacted. Finally, OpenSSL 1.1.0h fixes an overflow bug that could allow an attacker to access TLS-protected communications. The vulnerability, CVE-2017-3738, was first disclosed in December 2017, but since an attack is not easy to carry out the issue has been assigned a low severity rating and it has only been patched now. Four rounds of security updates were released for OpenSSL last year, and only one of the eight fixed vulnerabilities was classified as high severity. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597b06cefc42d78dc5c20" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Two Vulnerabilities Patched in OpenSSL", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/two-vulnerabilities-patched-openssl", "Date" : "December 07, 2017", "Article" : "The OpenSSL Project announced on Thursday the availability of OpenSSL 1.0.2n, a version that patches two vulnerabilities discovered by a Google researcher. The flaws were identified by Googleu2019s David Benjamin using the search giantu2019s OSS-Fuzz fuzzing service. One of the security holes, CVE-2017-3737, is related to an u201cerror stateu201d mechanism introduced with OpenSSL 1.0.2b. The mechanism is designed to trigger an immediate failure if there is an attempt to continue a handshake after a fatal error has occurred. The problem is that if the SSL_read() or SSL_write() functions are called directly, the mechanism doesnu2019t work properly. u201cIf SSL_read()/SSL_write() is subsequently called by the application for the same SSL object then it will succeed and the data is passed without being decrypted/encrypted directly fromu00a0the SSL/TLS record layer,u201d OpenSSL said in its advisory. While this vulnerability could have serious implications, it has only been rated u201cmoderate severityu201d due to the fact that the targeted application would need to have a bug that causes a call to SSL_read() or SSL_write() after getting a fatal error. Another vulnerability reported to the OpenSSL Project by Benjamin is CVE-2017-3738, an overflow bug that could allow an attacker to access TLS-protected communications. However, an attack is very difficult to carry out, which is why the issue has been classified as u201clow severity.u201d CVE-2017-3738 is similar to CVE-2017-3736 and CVE-2017-3732, two other vulnerabilities discovered using the OSS-Fuzz tool and patched last month, and CVE-2015-3193, an issue fixed in December 2015. CVE-2017-3738 affects both the 1.0.2 and 1.1.0 branches of OpenSSL. However, because itu2019s low severity, OpenSSL 1.1.0 has not been updated on this occasion. The vulnerability will be patched in OpenSSL 1.1.0h when it becomes available. This is the fourth OpenSSL update from 2017 that patches security bugs and, unless a critical issue is discovered, it will likely be the last. OpenSSL security updates were also announced in January and February. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597b26cefc42d78dc5c26" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "New Targets, $2 Million in Prizes Announced for Pwn2Own 2018", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/new-targets-2-million-prizes-announced-pwn2own-2018", "Date" : "January 25, 2018", "Article" : "Trend Microu2019s Zero Day Initiative (ZDI) announced on Thursday that this yearu2019s Pwn2Own hacking competition offers $2 million in cash and prizes, with several new pieces of software added to the list of targets. Pwn2Own 2018 is scheduled to take place on March 14-16 alongside the CanSecWest conference in Vancouver, Canada. This year, ZDI has partnered with Microsoft for the event, and VMware has been announced as a sponsor. This yearu2019s categories are virtualization, web browsers, enterprise applications, servers, and the Windows Insider Preview challenge. In the virtualization category, Pwn2Own 2018 introduces a new target, namely Oracle VirtualBox. Researchers can earn $35,000 and a $30,000 bonus if they can execute a privilege escalation via a Windows kernel vulnerability on the host. The base prize for VMware Workstation is $70,000 and for Microsoft Hyper-V itu2019s $150,000. All major web browsers are targeted at Pwn2Own 2018. A sandbox escape can earn contestants $60,000 if it works on Chrome or Edge, $55,000 on Safari, and $40,000 on Firefox. Hackers can earn a bonus of $50,000-$70,000 if they combine their exploit with a virtual machine escape via a kernel privilege escalation vulnerability. The targeted apps in the enterprise category are Adobe Reader, with a maximum prize of $90,000, Office 365 ProPlus, with a maximum prize of $50,000, and Microsoft Outlook, for which organizers are prepared to pay out up to $100,000. This will be the first time Outlook is a target at Pwn2Own. In the servers category, there are no less than three new targets, including NGINX, Microsoft Windows SMB, and OpenSSL. Apache Web Server, the only target in this category in last yearu2019s event, will remain on the list. Vulnerabilities in each of these pieces of software can earn researchers up to $100,000. Since Microsoft is a partner of Pwn2Own 2018, it has asked ZDI to introduce a special category for some of its flagship pre-release security technologies in the latest Windows Insider Preview for Business running on Surface Book 2 devices. Targets include Windows Defender Application Guard for Edge, Windows SMB, and the Windows Hyper-V client. Prizes range between $10,000 and $250,000. As always, the contestant or team with the highest number of Master of Pwn points will earn 65,000 ZDI reward points, which are worth roughly $25,000. In addition, the first-round winner for each category can win a laptop. At Pwn2Own 2017, ZDI paid out a total of $833,000 for 51 vulnerabilities, nearly double than the $460,000 earned by hackers in the previous year for only 21 new flaws. Given that this yearu2019s prize pool is $2 million, double than what organizers offered last year, we can expect some interesting exploits. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597ba6cefc42d78dc5c38" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Patches Vulnerabilities in macOS, watchOS, and tvOS", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/apple-patches-vulnerabilities-macos-watchos-and-tvos", "Date" : "December 07, 2017", "Article" : "Apple this week released security updates for macOS, watchOS, and tvOS, as well as updated versions of the Safari browser and the iTunes for Windows application. The company addressed a total of 22 vulnerabilities with the release of macOS High Sierra 10.13.2 this week (some of the patches were also included in Security Update 2017-002 Sierra and Security Update 2017-005 El Capitan). Affected components included apache, curl, Directory Utility, Intel Graphics Driver, IOAcceleratorFamily, IOKit, Kernel, Mail, Mail Drafts, OpenSSL, and Screen Sharing Server. Kernel was impacted the most, with 8 bugs addressed in it. Many of these flaws could result in attackers or malicious applications executing arbitrary code with either kernel or system privileges. Other vulnerabilities, however, could result in disclosure of process memory, administrator authentication bypass, and system termination, or could allow applications to read restricted memory. Impacting macOS High Sierra 10.13.1, the flaw in Mail could result in an S/MIME encrypted email being inadvertently sent unencrypted if the receiver's S/MIME certificate was not installed, Apple notes in an advisory. A total of 9 vulnerabilities were addressed with the release of watchOS 4.2. One of the bugs impacts IOSurface, another affects Wi-Fi, while the remaining 7 were resolved in Kernel. Most of the bugs could result in an application executing arbitrary code with kernel privileges or reading restricted memory. Affecting Apple Watch (1st Generation) and Apple Watch Series 3, the Wi-Fi bug allowed an attacker in Wi-Fi range to force nonce reuse in WPA multicast/GTK clients. The issue, known as Key Reinstallation Attacks or KRACK, was discovered earlier this year in the Wi-Fi standard itself, thus impacting all implementations, industrial networking devices included. Apple addressed the bug in most of its products in late October. Released on Monday, tvOS 11.2 resolves 10 vulnerabilities: one in IOSurface, another in Wi-Fi, and 8 in Kernel. Essentially, it fixes the 9 bugs addressed with watchOS 4.2, along with one other issue in Kernel. These 10 security vulnerabilities, along with 4 others (one in IOKit, one in IOMobileFrameBuffer, one in Mail, and another in Mail Drafts), were also addressed in iOS with the release of iOS 11.2 on December 2. On Wednesday, December 6, Apple also released Safari 11.0.2 and iTunes 12.7.2 for Windows, but hasnu2019t provided information on the security content of these updates. In late November, Appleu00a0released a security update for macOS High Sierra in an effort to patch a critical authentication bypass vulnerability that can be easily exploited to gain root access to a system. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597ca6cefc42d78dc5c65" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Zerodium Offers $500,000 For Messaging, Email App Exploits", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/zerodium-offers-500000-messaging-email-app-exploits", "Date" : "August 24, 2017", "Article" : "Zerodium has made some changes to its exploit acquisition program and the company is now offering up to $500,000 for remote code execution and privilege escalation vulnerabilities affecting popular instant messaging and email applications. The firm has decided to publish separate payout lists for mobile device exploits and desktop/server exploits. A remote jailbreak with no user interaction for iPhone is still worth up to $1.5 million, and up to $1 million can be earned for a similar exploit that involves some user interaction (e.g. clicking on a link or opening a file). One of the most important changes to Zerodiumu2019s program is the addition of email and instant messaging exploits. The company is prepared to offer up to half a million dollars for WeChat, Viber, Facebook Messenger, Signal, Telegram, WhatsApp and iMessage remote code execution and local privilege escalation exploits on Android and iOS. The same amount is being offered for SMS/MMS flaws and exploits targeting default email apps on Android and iOS. New entries in the mobile category also include baseband, and media file and document vulnerabilities that can be leveraged for remote code execution and privilege escalation. These exploits can earn up to $150,000. Sandbox escapes, code signing bypass, kernel privilege escalation, SS7, and Wi-Fi exploits can earn up to $100,000. Zerodium is also prepared to pay a five-figure sum for other mobile-related exploits. In the desktop and server systems category, the list of new entries includes a payout of up to $300,000 for Windows 10 remote code execution exploits that require no user interaction. Apache Web Server and Microsoft IIS code execution exploits are worth up to $150,000. The amount of money Zerodium is prepared to pay for Chrome, PHP, OpenSSL, Microsoft Exchange Server, Firefox, Tor, Office, WordPress and antivirus exploits has increased considerably. However, the company has decided to reduce its reward for antivirus privilege escalation flaws from $40,000 to only $10,000. While Adobe and other tech giants plan to kill Flash Player in the next couple of years, Zerodium is still prepared to offer up to $100,000 for exploits targeting the application. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597d26cefc42d78dc5c7b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenVPN Patches Remotely Exploitable Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openvpn-patches-remotely-exploitable-vulnerabilities", "Date" : "June 22, 2017", "Article" : "OpenVPN this week patched several vulnerabilities impacting various branches, including flaws that could be exploited remotely. Four of the bugs were found by researcher Guido Vranken through fuzzing, after recent audits found a single severe bug in OpenVPN. While analyzing OpenVPN 2.4.2, the researcher found and reported four security issues that were addressed in the OpenVPN 2.4.3 and OpenVPN 2.3.17 releases this week. The most important of the four issues is a Remotely-triggerable ASSERT() on malformed IPv6 packet bug that can be exploited to remotely shutdown an OpenVPN server or client. Tracked as CVE-2017-7508, the bug can be triggered if IPv6 and --mssfix are enabled and only if the IPv6 networks used inside the VPN are known. Tracked as CVE-2017-7521, a second vulnerability involves remote-triggerable memory leaks. The issue is that the code doesnu2019t free all allocated memory when using the --x509-alt-username option on OpenSSL builds with an extension (argument prefixed with "ext:"). u201cSeveral of our OpenSSL-specific certificate-parsing code paths did not always clear all allocated memory. Since a client can cause a few bytes of memory to be leaked for each connection attempt, a client can cause a server to run out of memory and thereby kill the server. That makes this a (quite inefficient) DoS attack,u201d OpenVPN explains in an advisory. The third vulnerability Guido Vranken discovered was a potential double-free in --x509-alt-username, tracked as CVE-2017-7521.u00a0The bug can be triggered only on configurations that use the --x509-alt-username option with an x509 extension, and this function is very unlikely to fail in real-world usage for other reasons than memory exhaustion, the researcher discovered. The fourth issue found by Vranken was a post-authentication remote DoS when using the --x509-track option. Tracked as CVE-2017-7522, the vulnerability resides in asn1_buf_to_c_string() returning a literal string not a mutable one, when the input ASN.1 string contains a NUL character. When the caller attempts to change this string, the client can crash a server by sending a certificate with an embedded NUL character. Another security bug resolved in OpenVPN this week was a pre-authentication remote crash/information disclosure for clients. Tracked as CVE-2017-7520, the issue could allow a man-in-the-middle attacker between the client and the proxy to crash or disclose at most 96 bytes of stack memory (likely containing the proxy password). The vulnerability can be triggered only on clients that use a HTTP proxy with NTLM authentication and is unlikely to compromise the security of the OpenVPN tunnel itself if the password isnu2019t reused. Clients that donu2019t use the --http-proxy option with ntlm2 authentication are not affected. OpenVPN also resolved a null-pointer dereference in establish_http_proxy_passthru(), where the client could crash u201cif the peer did not specify the 'realm' and/or 'nonce' values. These pointers are dereferenced in DigestCalcHA1() and DigestCalcResponse?(); hence, if not set, a null-pointer dereference would occur.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597f86cefc42d78dc5cdd" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Email Security Device "nomx" Has Serious Flaws: Researchers", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/email-security-device-nomx-has-serious-flaws-researchers", "Date" : "May 01, 2017", "Article" : "Researchers claim to have found some serious vulnerabilities in u201cnomx,u201d a product designed for securing email communications. The vendor has disputed the findings and assured customers that its devices cannot be hacked remotely. Nomx is a protocol and device that allegedly u201censures absolute privacy for personal and commercial email and messaging.u201d British researchers Scott Helme and Professor Alan Woodward have been asked by the BBC to analyze the nomx personal email server appliance, which costs between $199 and $399, depending on its storage capacity. Their analysis revealed the existence of several security issues, including flaws that can be exploited remotely to hijack a device. An inspection of nomx hardware components showed that the device had actually been powered by a Raspberry Pi, which made it easier for the experts to gain root access and analyze the software running on it. In a post published on his personal blog, Helme said he found several pieces of outdated software running on the email security device, including Raspbian and PHP from 2015, OpenSSL and MySQL versions from 2016, a Postfix variant from 2013, and nginx and Dovecot from 2012. According to Helme, the software running on the device does not do much in terms of securing email communications, and the expert said many major email service providers may actually block messages sent via nomx as they share some characteristics with spam. An analysis of the nomx web interface revealed the existence of several cross-site scripting (XSS) and cross-site request forgery (CSRF) vulnerabilities. Helme said the CSRF flaws can be exploited to create new administrator accounts (i.e. backdoors) and make configuration changes by getting a user to visit a specially crafted webpage. The researcher said he also discovered a documented, default account that provides administrator access to the device. The main problem is that the documentation does not encourage users to change the password to this account and there is no mechanisms in place to force a password change after the first login. Helme also reported that the device he had analyzed had no update mechanism that would allow users to patch the vulnerable software running on the appliance. Nomx disputes findings and says researchers made false claims In a statement posted on its website, Nomx disputed the findings and accused the researchers of making false claims. The company said the attack methods detailed by Helme on his blog could not be carried out in a real world scenario. Nomx pointed out that Helmeu2019s attack involved physical access to the device. However, the researcher said he conducted hardware hacking in order to find out more about how the device works, but this phase of his research is not related to the attacks that can be launched remotely. Nomx said only earlier versions of its product were based on a Raspberry Pi and claimed the analyzed devices were actually demo units. The firm also provided recommendations on how users can protect themselves against potential CSRF attacks. u201cNo nomx devices, accounts or data was ever compromised and the blogger could not show any evidence of such actions,u201d the company stated. The vendor claims to have challenged Helme and others to hack its device in a real world scenario, but they allegedly failed to complete the task. On the other hand, the researcher denies taking part in this test. Both the experts and the BBC said they stand by their reports and claimed that the devices they received for testing were described as production units, not early demo units. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598026cefc42d78dc5cf7" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patches Four Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-patches-four-vulnerabilities", "Date" : "January 26, 2017", "Article" : "The OpenSSL Project announced on Thursday the availability of OpenSSL versions 1.1.0d and 1.0.2k, which address a total of four low and moderate severity vulnerabilities. One of the flaws, tracked as CVE-2017-3731, allows an attacker to trigger an out-of-bounds read using a truncated packet and crash an SSL/TLS server or client running on a 32-bit host. The weakness, reported in mid-November by Google security researcher Robert Swiecki, affects both the 1.1.0 and 1.0.2 branches when certain ciphers are used, specifically the ChaCha20-Poly1305 for version 1.1.0 and RC4-MD5 for 1.0.2. Both OpenSSL branches are also affected by a carry propagation bug in the x86_64 Montgomery squaring procedure (CVE-2017-3732). A successful attack relying on a carry propagation bug can allow an attacker to recover encryption keys. However, in this case, the OpenSSL Project said elliptic curve (EC) algorithms are not affected and attacks against RSA and DSA are difficult to carry out. u201cAttacks against DH are considered just feasible (although very difficult) because most of the work necessary to deduce information about a private key may be performed offline,u201d the OpenSSL Project said in its advisory. u201cThe amount of resources required for such an attack would be very significant and likely only accessible to a limited number of attackers. An attacker would additionally need online access to an unpatched system using the target private key in a scenario with persistent DH parameters and a private key that is shared between multiple clients.u201d The flaw, reported earlier this month by Googleu2019s OSS-Fuzz project, is very similar to CVE-2015-3193, which OpenSSL patched in December 2015. The third vulnerability, identified as CVE-2017-3730, affects the 1.1.0 branch and it can be exploited in a denial-of-service (DoS) attack. A malicious server that supplies bad parameters for a DHE or ECDHE key exchange can cause the client to crash. The flaw, reported recently by Guido Vranken, was fixed by OpenSSL developers before knowing that it had security implications. OpenSSL 1.0.2k also addresses a low severity vulnerability that was patched in the 1.1.0 branch in November. Currently, the only supported versions of OpenSSL are 1.0.2 and 1.1.0. Version 1.0.1 no longer receives security updates since January 1. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35981a6cefc42d78dc5d2c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "High Severity DoS Flaw Patched in OpenSSL", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/high-severity-dos-flaw-patched-openssl", "Date" : "November 10, 2016", "Article" : "As announced earlier this week, the OpenSSL Project today released an update for the 1.1.0 branch to address several vulnerabilities, including a high severity denial-of-service (DoS) issue reported by a security expert at Google. OpenSSL 1.1.0c fixes three vulnerabilities. The most serious of them, tracked as CVE-2016-7054, is a heap-based buffer overflow related to TLS connections using *-CHACHA20-POLY1305 cipher suites. Corrupting larger payloads can lead to a DoS condition, which can result in a crash of OpenSSL. According to the OpenSSL Project, the flaw does not affect versions prior to 1.1.0 and there is no evidence that itu2019s exploitable beyond a DoS attack. The issue was found by Robert u015awiu0119cki of the Google Security Team using the honggfuzz fuzzer. OpenSSL developers were notified about the bug on September 25. The latest OpenSSL 1.1.0 update also patches a moderate severity flaw that can cause applications to crash (CVE-2016-7053). This issue also only affects OpenSSL 1.1.0. OpenSSL 1.1.0c also resolves a low severity bug tracked as CVE-2016-7055. The weakness, related to the Broadwell-specific Montgomery multiplication procedure, was initially not viewed as a security problem, but experts have demonstrated that it is exploitable in very specific circumstances. This vulnerability also affects OpenSSL 1.0.2, but an update has not been released for this branch due to it being a low severity issue. The patch will be included in the next 1.0.2 update. The OpenSSL Project has once again reminded users that version 1.0.1 will no longer be supported after December 31, 2016. This version will not receive security updates after that date. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598236cefc42d78dc5d41" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches 35 Critical Android Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-patches-35-critical-android-vulnerabilities", "Date" : "March 07, 2017", "Article" : "Google this week released a new set of monthly security patches for Android to address over 100 vulnerabilities in the platform, 35 of which carry a Critical severity rating. In a newly published Security Bulletin, Google reveals that two partial security patch level strings are rolling out this month: the 2017-03-01 security patch level to resolve 36 vulnerabilities (11 Critical, 15 High, 9 Moderate, 1 Low), and the 2017-03-05 security patch level to address 71 flaws (24 Critical, 32 High, 14 Moderate, 1 Low). The 11 Critical flaws resolved with the 2017-03-01 security patch level include nine Remote Code Execution (RCE) issues in Mediaserver; one RCE in OpenSSL & BoringSSL; and an Elevation of privilege (EoP) vulnerability in recovery verifier. The 15 vulnerabilities rated High included three RCE bugs in AOSP Messaging, libgdx, and Framesequence library; two EoP issues in Audioserver; one EoP in NFC; and nine Denial of Service (DoS) vulnerabilities in Mediaserver. The Medium risk flaws include EoP issues in Location Manager, Wi-Fi, Package Manager, and System UI; Information disclosure vulnerabilities in AOSP Messaging and Mediaserver; and DoS bugs in Setup Wizard and Mediaserver. The Low severity issue addressed in 2017-03-01 security patch level is a DoS vulnerability in Audioserver. The 24 Critical risk issue resolved in 2017-03-05 security patch level include 19 EoP vulnerabilities (seven in MediaTek components, five in NVIDIA GPU driver, two in kernel ION subsystem, one in Broadcom Wi-Fi driver, one in kernel FIQ debugger, one in Qualcomm GPU driver, and two in kernel networking subsystem) and 5 various vulnerabilities in Qualcomm components.u00a0  Elevation of privilege issues clearly dominated the patch level, given that 25 rated High severity were addressed as well. They affected kernel networking subsystem, Qualcomm input hardware driver, MediaTek Hardware Sensor Driver, Qualcomm ADSPRPC driver, Qualcomm fingerprint sensor driver, Qualcomm crypto engine driver, Qualcomm camera driver, MediaTek APK, Qualcomm Wi-Fi driver, Synaptics touchscreen driver, Qualcomm IPA driver, HTC Sensor Hub Driver, NVIDIA GPU driver, Qualcomm networking driver, kernel security subsystem, and Qualcomm SPCom driver. Six of the remaining High risk issues addressed in 2017-03-05 security patch level are Information disclosure vulnerabilities (affecting kernel networking subsystem, MediaTek driver, Qualcomm bootloader, Qualcomm power driver, NVIDIA GPU driver), while the last one is a Denial of service vulnerability in kernel cryptographic subsystem. The Moderate risk flaws addressed in this patch level include an EoP in Qualcomm camera driver (device specific), and 13 Information disclosure bugs (in Qualcomm Wi-Fi driver, MediaTek video codec driver, Qualcomm video driver, Qualcomm camera driver, HTC sound codec driver, Synaptics touchscreen driver, and kernel USB gadget driver). The Low severity bug was an Information disclosure vulnerability in Qualcomm camera driver. All of the above issues should be addressed by security patch levels of 2017-03-05 or later, Google notes on its advisory. The company already started pushing an over-the-air update to Google Devices (Android One, Nexus, and Pixel devices) with the March 05, 2017 security patch level. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598276cefc42d78dc5d4c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL to Patch High Severity Flaw in Version 1.1.0", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-patch-high-severity-flaw-version-110", "Date" : "November 08, 2016", "Article" : "The OpenSSL Project informed users on Monday that itu2019s preparing a patch for several vulnerabilities affecting version 1.1.0. OpenSSL version 1.1.0c, which is scheduled for release on November 10 between 12:00 and 16:00 UTC, will address several security holes. The most serious of them has been classified as u201chigh severityu201d and it does not affect versions prior to 1.1.0. In September, the OpenSSL Project released updates that patched more than a dozen vulnerabilities, but most of them did not affect the recently launched 1.1.0 branch. One of the issues patched at the time in OpenSSL 1.1.0 was a low severity denial-of-service (DoS) flaw related to excessive allocation of memory in the tls_get_message_header() function. The vulnerability, tracked as CVE-2016-6307, is considered low severity as it can only be exploited if certain conditions are met. However, Google Security Engineer Robert Swiecki discovered that the patch for CVE-2016-6307 introduced a critical use-after-free vulnerability that could lead to a crash and even arbitrary code execution. A second update for the 1.1.0 branch was released within days to address this new flaw (CVE-2016-6309). A total of five OpenSSL security updates have been released this year to patch more than 30 vulnerabilities, including five rated high severity and one rated critical. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598426cefc42d78dc5d87" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Tor Offers $4,000 Per Flaw in Public Bug Bounty Program", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/tor-offers-4000-flaw-public-bug-bounty-program", "Date" : "July 20, 2017", "Article" : " The Tor Project announced on Thursday the launch of a public bug bounty program. Researchers can earn thousands of dollars if they find serious vulnerabilities in the anonymity network. The Tor Project first announced its intention to launch a bug bounty program in late December 2015. A private program was launched in January 2016 and bounty hunters managed to find three denial-of-service (DoS) flaws, including two out-of-bounds (OOB) read and one infinite loop issues, and four memory corruption vulnerabilities that have been described as u201cedge-case.u201d Now, with support from the Open Technology Fund, Tor has launched a public bug bounty program on the HackerOne platform. The organization is looking for vulnerabilities in the Tor network daemon and Tor Browser, including local privilege escalation, remote code execution, unauthorized access of user data, and attack methods that can be used to obtain crypto data on relays or clients. Researchers can earn between $2,000 and $4,000 for high severity bugs. Medium severity vulnerabilities are worth between $500 and $2,000, while low severity issues will be rewarded with a minimum of $100. Even less severe problems will be rewarded with a t-shirt, stickers and a mention in Toru2019s hall of fame. On its bug bounty page, the Tor Project provides examples for each category of vulnerabilities, including with CVE references. Vulnerabilities affecting third-party libraries used by Tor can also earn between $500 and $2,000, but libraries covered by other bug bounty programs, such as OpenSSL, have been excluded. u201cTor users around the globe, including human rights defenders, activists, lawyers, and researchers, rely on the safety and security of our software to be anonymous online. Help us protect them and keep them safe from surveillance, tracking, and attacks,u201d said Georg Koppen, a longtime Tor browser developer. Tor first announced its intention to launch a bug bounty program after a team of researchers from Carnegie Mellon University helped the FBI unmask users of the anonymity network by creating more than a hundred new relays on the network. The Tor Project claimed at the time that the U.S. government had paid the university at least $1 million to carry out the attack. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35984c6cefc42d78dc5d9d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Patches Flaws in Xcode, Windows Software", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/apple-patches-flaws-xcode-windows-software", "Date" : "October 28, 2016", "Article" : "Apple has updated its Xcode integrated development environment (IDE) and the Windows versions of iTunes and iCloud to address a dozen vulnerabilities affecting these products. The company updated Xcode to version 8.1 to address ten security holes that can be exploited for arbitrary code execution or to cause an application crash. The update fixes vulnerabilities in Node.js and OpenSSL, mostly issues patched in 2015 and early 2016. Apple said it updated the Node.js version used in Xcode Server to 4.5.0, which became available in mid-August. With the release of iTunes 12.5.2 and iCloud 6.0.1 for Windows, Apple patched a couple of vulnerabilities in the WebKit web browser engine. One of the flaws, discovered by Chris Palmer and tracked as CVE-2016-4613, can lead to disclosure of user information. The second issue, discovered by Apple and identified as CVE-2016-7578, can lead to arbitrary code execution. Both vulnerabilities can be exploited through processing of specially crafted web content. The information disclosure flaw was also resolved earlier this week in Safari and tvOS. The code execution bug also affects iOS and it was addressed on Monday with the release of version 10.1. The updates released by Apple on Monday fix tens of vulnerabilities in iOS, macOS Sierra, Safari, tvOS, and watchOS. Some of the flaws affecting iOS of OS X can easily be exploited by attackers with specially crafted JPEG, font, PDF and archive files. Security updates issued by Apple in late August and early September for OS X, iOS and Safari addressed three zero-day vulnerabilities that had been exploited via a high-end surveillance solution in attacks aimed at human rights activists and journalists. Apple could soon release another iOS update to patch vulnerabilities exploited by Tencent KeenLab researchers at the 2016 Mobile Pwn2Own competition to install a rogue application on an iPhone 6S. While their attempt was only partially successful due to a default configuration setting that prevented persistence after a reboot of the device, the hackers still earned $60,000 for their effort. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598656cefc42d78dc5dd9" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Cloudflare Leaked Sensitive Customer Data", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/cloudflare-leaked-sensitive-customer-data", "Date" : "February 24, 2017", "Article" : "Cloudflare has been working around the clock in the past few days to address a critical security problem that led to sensitive customer data getting leaked and cached by search engines. The uninitialized memory leak was discovered by Google Project Zero researcher Tavis Ormandy, who jokingly said he considered the idea of calling it u201cCloudbleedu201d due to similarities to the OpenSSL bug known as HeartBleed. Ormandy noticed the leakage on February 17, while working on a fuzzing-related project. He immediately notified Cloudflare and the CDN had an initial mitigation in place within an hour. However, the cleanup effort took several days since Google, Yahoo, Bing and other search engines had cached at least 770 URIs across 161 unique domains containing leaked memory. According to the expert, the leaked data included passwords, cookies, encryption keys, private messages from dating sites, chat messages, IP addresses and even HTTPS requests. Researcher Nick Sweeting has compiled a list of potentially affected domains, including major services such as Coinbase, DigitalOcean, Medium, 4Chan, Yelp, Uber, Zendesk, OKCupid and Namecheap. Ormandy also named 1Password, but the password manager reassured users that their data was not at risk. NowSecure has published a blog post detailing how the Cloudbleed bug impacts mobile applications. In a blog post describing the incident, Cloudflare CTO John Graham-Cumming explained that the companyu2019s edge servers were running past the end of a buffer and returning memory that contained sensitive information. Cloudflare said memory leakage may have first occurred in September 2016, when the company enabled automatic HTTP rewrites. Then it got worse after a couple of features, server-side excludes and email obfuscation, were migrated to new parsers this year. The content delivery network has determined that the period with the greatest impact was February 13-18, when one in every 3.3 million HTTP requests going through Cloudflare may have resulted in memory leakage. Graham-Cumming pointed out that customersu2019 SSL private keys were not leaked, but admitted that a private key used to encrypt connections between the companyu2019s own machines was compromised. Cloudflare said there was no evidence of any malicious exploits or information being leaked on Pastebin or other such websites. Google Project Zero said it destroyed the data samples collected during its analysis. Ormandy was ultimately satisfied with how CloudFlare handled the issues and its detailed incident report. However, the expert believes the CDNu2019s blog u201cseverely downplays the risk to customers.u201d In an email to customers, Matthew Prince, Cloudflare Co-founder and CEO, said the company would notify customers if they discovered any data leaked about their domains during the search, and that they would provide full details on what was found. "To date, we have yet to find any instance of the bug being exploited, but we recommend if you are concerned that you invalidate and reissue any persistent secrets, such as long lived session identifiers, tokens or keys," Prince wrote. "Due to the nature of the bug, customer SSL keys were not exposed and do not need to be rotated." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598806cefc42d78dc5e1d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "High Severity Flaw Patched in OpenSSL 1.1.0", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/high-severity-flaw-patched-openssl-110", "Date" : "February 16, 2017", "Article" : "A high severity denial-of-service (DoS) vulnerability was patched on Thursday in OpenSSL with the release of version 1.1.0e. The flaw, tracked as CVE-2017-3733, has been described as an u201cEncrypt-Then-Mac renegotiation crash.u201d The security hole, reported by Joe Orton of Red Hat on January 31, does not affect OpenSSL 1.0.2. u201cDuring a renegotiation handshake if the Encrypt-Then-Mac extension is negotiated where it was not in the original handshake (or vice-versa) then this can cause OpenSSL to crash (dependent on ciphersuite). Both clients and servers are affected,u201d the OpenSSL Project said in its advisory. The OpenSSL Project has once again reminded users that versions 1.0.1, 1.0.0 and 0.9.8 are not supported and they no longer receive security updates. Version 1.0.2 has a long term support (LTS) date of December 31, 2019, and there are no plans for a 1.0.3 release. This is the second security update released this year. The first, released in late January, patched four low and moderate severity vulnerabilities. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35989e6cefc42d78dc5e61" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : ""Ticketbleed" Flaw Exposes F5 Appliances to Remote Attacks", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/ticketbleed-flaw-exposes-f5-appliances-remote-attacks", "Date" : "February 09, 2017", "Article" : "F5 Networks BIG-IP appliances are affected by a serious vulnerability that can be exploited by a remote attacker to extract memory. An Internet scan showed that hundreds of hosts had been exposed by the flaw. The vulnerability, dubbed u201cTicketbleedu201d and tracked as CVE-2016-9244, was discovered by Filippo Valsorda, cryptography engineer at CloudFlare, and other employees of the content delivery network (CDN). The expert identified the weakness while investigating a bug report from a CloudFlare customer, and notified F5 in late October. According to F5, the vulnerability affects BIG-IP SSL virtual servers that have the non-default Session Tickets option enabled. The leaked memory can contain SSL session IDs and other potentially sensitive data. As its name suggests, Ticketbleed is somewhat similar to the notorious OpenSSL vulnerability known as Heartbleed. However, unlike Heartbleed, Ticketbleed exposes 31 bytes of memory at a time instead of 64 kilobyte chunks u2013 which means an attack requires more rounds u2013 and itu2019s specific to F5 products. The list of affected F5 BIG-IP products includes LTM, AAM, AFM, Analytics, APM, ASM, GTM, Link Controller, PEM and PSM. Updates that address the flaw have been released for most of these products. As a workaround, users can disable the Session Tickets option on the affected Client SSL profile from the Configuration utility's Local Traffic > Profiles > SSL > Client menu. u201cThe vulnerability lies in the implementation of Session Tickets, a resumption technique used to speed up repeated connections. When a client supplies a Session ID together with a Session Ticket, the server is supposed to echo back the Session ID to signal acceptance of the ticket. Session IDs can be anywhere between 1 and 31 bytes in length,u201d Valsorda explained. u201cThe F5 stack always echoes back 32 bytes of memory, even if the Session ID was shorter. An attacker providing a 1-byte Session ID would then receive 31 bytes of uninitialized memory,u201d the expert added. Valsorda has made available a simple online tool that allows users to determine if their server is vulnerable to Ticketbleed attacks. Internet scans conducted by the researcher showed that 949 of the Alexa top one million websites were vulnerable, including 15 in the top 10,000 sites. Of the top one million hosts on Ciscou2019s Umbrella cloud security platform, over 1,600 were found to be affected. Valsorda has provided detailed technical information on the vulnerability and made some recommendations for security vendors that might consider trying to detect potential Ticketbleed attacks. Related Reading: Heartbleed Still Affects 200,000 Devices Related Reading: OpenSSL Patches Four Vulnerabilities " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598a66cefc42d78dc5e71" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patch for Low Severity Issue Creates Critical Flaw", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-patch-low-severity-issue-creates-critical-flaw", "Date" : "September 26, 2016", "Article" : "A fix included in the OpenSSL updates released last week introduced a critical vulnerability that could potentially lead to arbitrary code execution, the OpenSSL Project warned on Monday. OpenSSL versions 1.1.0a, 1.0.2i and 1.0.1u were released on September 22 to address more than a dozen security holes. One of the issues affecting OpenSSL 1.1.0 is a low severity denial-of-service (DoS) bug related to excessive allocation of memory in the tls_get_message_header() function. The flaw, reported by Shi Lei of Qihoo 360 and identified as CVE-2016-6307, is considered u201clow severityu201d because it can only be exploited if certain conditions are met. The OpenSSL Project rolled out a fix in version 1.1.0a, but Google Security Engineer Robert Swiecki soon discovered that the patch created a critical use-after-free vulnerability related to large message sizes. u201cThe patch applied to address CVE-2016-6307 resulted in an issue where if a message larger than approx 16k is received then the underlying buffer to store the incoming message is reallocated and moved. Unfortunately a dangling pointer to the old location is left which results in an attempt to write to the previously freed location,u201d the OpenSSL Project wrote in its advisory. The critical flaw (CVE-2016-6309) can result in a crash, but it could also lead to arbitrary code execution. The problem has been addressed with the release of OpenSSL 1.1.0b. OpenSSL developers also announced on Monday the release of version 1.0.2j, which patches a missing CRL sanity check issue affecting only version 1.0.2i (CVE-2016-7052). The OpenSSL Project hopes that by quickly releasing a patch for the critical vulnerability, users will update their installations directly to the newest versions instead of the ones made available last week. The most serious weakness fixed last week is CVE-2016-6304, which can be exploited for DoS attacks by sending an excessively large OCSP Status Request extension to the targeted server. Another interesting issue fixed last week, albeit a low severity one, is Sweet32, a recently disclosed attack method that can be leveraged to recover potentially sensitive data from a large volume of encrypted traffic. Related Reading: Encrypted Network Traffic Comes at a Cost " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598d46cefc42d78dc5ec2" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Recently Patched OpenSSL Flaw Still Plagues Top Sites", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/recently-patched-openssl-flaw-still-plagues-top-sites", "Date" : "May 30, 2016", "Article" : "An OpenSSL vulnerability patched in early May with the release of versions 1.0.2h and 1.0.1t still hasnu2019t been patched on many of the worldu2019s most visited websites, exposing potentially sensitive traffic to man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks. Last week, security firm High-Tech Bridge used its free SSL/TLS testing service to determine how many of the Alexa Top 10,000 websites are still plagued by the OpenSSL vulnerability tracked as CVE-2016-2107. The flaw was introduced in 2013 as part of the fix for the TLS attack dubbed u201cLucky 13.u201d In April, Juraj Somorovsky discovered that an MitM attacker can launch a padding oracle attack to decrypt traffic in cases where the connection uses an AES CBC cipher and the server supports AES-NI instructions. u201cThe bad news is that support of the AES CBC cipher is widely recommended for compatibility reasons, required by TLS 1.2 RFC and recommended by NIST guidelines. AES CBC cipher is also considered the strongest cipher for TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1,u201d the security firm said in a blog post. High-Tech Bridge told SecurityWeek that it conducted an automated, non-intrusive scan of the Alexa Top 10,000 websites by looking for the use of AES CBC and by using custom OpenSSL code specially designed to check for the existence of CVE-2016-2107. The scan revealed that either web or email servers associated with 1,829 (19.29 percent) of the top websites had been both vulnerable and exploitable. Researchers determined that 62 percent of servers (6,258) were not vulnerable, and 19 percent (1,913) were vulnerable, but not exploitable. u201cTaking into consideration that the vulnerability can be exploited in practice and allows stealing user data, credentials, financial and personal information, such results are pretty disappointing,u201d researchers noted. Companies that want to determine if their web or email server is vulnerable can use the security firmu2019s free SSL/TLS testing service. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598d96cefc42d78dc5ecb" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patches Moderate Severity Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-patches-moderate-severity-vulnerabilities", "Date" : "December 03, 2015", "Article" : "The OpenSSL Project released on Thursday versions 1.0.2e, 1.0.1q, 1.0.0t and 0.9.8zh of the cryptographic software library to fix several security flaws and functionality bugs. A total of three vulnerabilities classified as u201cmoderateu201d severity have been patched in the latest versions. One of the flaws is related to the BN_mod_exp function, which researcher Hanno Bu00f6ck discovered that it could produce incorrect results on x86_64 systems. The issue has been assigned the CVE-2015-3193 identifier. According to the OpenSSL Project, the vulnerability, which only affects OpenSSL 1.0.2, can be exploited against RSA, DSA (Digital Signature Algorithm), and Diffieu2013Hellman (DH) algorithms, but such attacks would be very difficult to pull off. Elliptic curve (EC) algorithms are not affected. u201cThe amount of resources required for such an attack would be very significant and likely only accessible to a limited number of attackers. An attacker would additionally need online access to an unpatched system using the target private key in a scenario with persistent DH parameters and a private key that is shared between multiple clients. For example this can occur by default in OpenSSL DHE based SSL/TLS ciphersuites,u201d reads the security advisory. Another issue, which affects both the 1.0.2 and 1.0.1 versions of OpenSSL, is related to certificate signature verification (CVE-2015-3194) and can be exploited for denial-of-service (DoS) attacks. The vulnerability, reported in August by Lou00efc Jonas Etienne of Qnective AG, can be leveraged to crash certificate verification operations. Applications that perform certificate verification are affected, including OpenSSL servers and clients that enable client authentication. The third flaw was reported in November by Googleu2019s Adam Langley. The expert discovered that OpenSSL leaks memory when presented with a malformed X509_ATTRIBUTE structure (CVE-2015-3195). All OpenSSL versions are affected. u201cThis structure is used by the PKCS#7 and CMS routines so any application which reads PKCS#7 or CMS data from untrusted sources is affected. SSL/TLS is not affected,u201d noted OpenSSL developers. The OpenSSL Projectu2019s advisory also details a low severity vulnerability that could result in a race condition (CVE-2015-3196). The flaw was previously fixed in OpenSSL 1.0.2d and 1.0.1p, but it had not been disclosed. A fix has now been included in OpenSSL 1.0.0t. The fixes for these vulnerabilities have been developed by Andy Polyakov and Dr. Stephen Henson, both of the OpenSSL development team. The OpenSSL Project has once again reminded users that these will likely be the last updates for OpenSSL 1.0.0 and 0.9.8 as these versions will no longer be supported starting with January 1, 2016. Node.js developers had planned to release security updates on Tuesday. However, since Node.js uses OpenSSL, the release of the updates has been postponed until Thursday so that the OpenSSL updates can be included as well. u201cWe understand that the timing of this during the work-week is unfortunate but we must take into account the possibility of introducing a vulnerability gap between disclosure of OpenSSL vulnerabilities and patched releases by Node.js and therefore must respond as quickly as practical,u201d said Node.js developers. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598e66cefc42d78dc5ee1" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL to Patch Several Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-patch-several-vulnerabilities", "Date" : "November 30, 2015", "Article" : "OpenSSL updates scheduled for release on December 3 will address several vulnerabilities, the OpenSSL Project announced on Monday. OpenSSL versions 1.0.2e, 1.0.1q, 1.0.0t and 0.9.8zh will be released on Thursday between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. UTC. No details have been provided regarding the security holes that will be resolved, but itu2019s unlikely that weu2019ll see the next Heartbleed considering that the most serious of them have been classified as having moderate severity. The OpenSSL Projectu2019s security policy describes moderate severity vulnerabilities as issues affecting less commonly used protocols (e.g. DTLS), local flaws, and client application crashes. They are generally kept private until the next release when several such issues are patched at once. OpenSSL vulnerabilities were until recently classified using three security levels: high, moderate and low. The u201ccriticalu201d level has been added to describe serious issues that affect common configurations and are likely to be exploited. Critical flaws are patched as soon as possible. u201cExamples include significant disclosure of the contents of server memory (potentially revealing user details), vulnerabilities which can be easily exploited remotely to compromise server private keys (excluding local, theoretical or difficult to exploit side channel attacks) or where remote code execution is considered likely in common situations,u201d the OpenSSL Project noted in its security policy. OpenSSL users have also been reminded that the 0.9.8 and 1.0.0 releases will no longer receive security updates starting with January 1, 2016. Unless serious issues that need to be quickly fixed are discovered until December 31, 1.0.0t and 0.9.8zh will likely be the last releases for these versions. A total of four OpenSSL security updates have been released until now in 2015. The updates were issued in January, March, June and July. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598f26cefc42d78dc5ef5" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Preparing Patches for High Severity Flaws", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-preparing-patches-high-severity-flaws", "Date" : "February 25, 2016", "Article" : "The OpenSSL Project announced today that it will release versions 1.0.2g and 1.0.1s to patch several vulnerabilities, including ones rated u201chigh severity.u201d The updates are scheduled for release on March 1 between 1pm and 5pm UTC, OpenSSL developers informed users. High severity issues are considered less important compared to critical vulnerabilities because usually they affect less common configurations or are less likely to be exploitable. Flaws rated as having high severity are kept private until a patch is released, usually within a month after the bug is reported. Last month, the OpenSSL Project released version 1.0.2f to patch a high severity flaw that allows attackers to obtain information that can be leveraged to decrypt secure traffic (CVE-2016-0701). The problem is related to the generation of X9.42 style parameter files as required in RFC 5114. Experts discovered that the primes in these files may not be safe, allowing attackers to obtain the key needed to decrypt traffic if the targeted application uses the Diffie-Hellman (DH) key exchange and is configured with parameters based on unsafe primes. OpenSSL 1.0.1 was also updated in January to patch a low severity SSLv2 cipher issue and update the previous fix for the Logjam vulnerability. The OpenSSL Project has once again reminded users that support for version 1.0.1 will end on December 31, 2016. Support for the 1.0.0 and 0.9.8 releases ended on December 31, 2015. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599056cefc42d78dc5f18" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Audit Finds Only One Severe Vulnerability in OpenVPN", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/audit-finds-only-one-severe-vulnerability-openvpn", "Date" : "May 12, 2017", "Article" : "Two teams of experts have conducted audits of the open-source virtual private network (VPN) application OpenVPN, including its use of cryptography, and they identified only one high severity vulnerability. One audit, conducted between December 2016 and February 2017, was carried out by cryptography expert Dr. Matthew Green and funded by Private Internet Access (PIA). Green and his team looked for both memory-related vulnerabilities (e.g. buffer overflows and use-after-free) and cryptographic weaknesses. A security review of OpenVPN was also conducted by Quarkslab over a 50-day period between February and April, with funding from the Open Source Technology Improvement Fund (OSTIF). This audit focused on OpenVPN for Windows and Linux, the OpenVPN GUI, and the TAP driver for Windows. Both audits targeted OpenVPN 2.4. Quarkslab discovered one vulnerability that has been rated high severity. The flaw, tracked as CVE-2017-7478, is a denial-of-service (DoS) issue that allows an unauthenticated attacker to crash OpenVPN clients and servers. Researchers pointed out that the weakness can be easily exploited. Quarkslab also identified a medium severity DoS vulnerability (CVE-2017-7479) that can only be exploited by an authenticated attacker. The other security bugs found by the company have been classified as low severity or informational issues. The audit conducted by Dr. Greenu2019s Cryptography Engineering did not uncover any major flaws. Experts did find a couple of medium severity vulnerabilities u2013 one of them is related to the fact that sensitive authentication tokens are not wiped from memory in case of certain TLS errors, and the second issue involves potentially flawed TLS control channel encryption. Cryptography Engineering also reported discovering six low severity problems. The more serious issues have already been addressed by OpenVPN developers, and the less severe problems will be patched in the next official release. u201cGiven the numerous options and features provided by OpenVPN, vulnerabilities may crop up from certain feature combinations. This will be an ongoing challenge for OpenVPN developers to catch these problems early as the code base continues to evolve and expand,u201d Cryptography Engineering said in its report. u201cWhile the overall cryptographic design of OpenVPN is solid, some of the options available may undermine a useru2019s ability to deploy a secure VPN solution. As such, we recommend that the OpenVPN developers continue to document the risks of using certain advanced features to users.u201d u201cOpenVPN is much safer after these audits, and the fixes applied to the OpenVPN mean that the world is safer when using this software,u201d OSTIF said in a blog post. u201cWe have verified that the OpenVPN software is generally well-written with strong adherence to security practices.u201d OSTIF pointed out that its next target is OpenSSL 1.1.1, which is the first version to implement TLS 1.3 and which contains numerous code changes. Related Reading: OpenVPN Vulnerable to ShellShock Attacks Related Reading: OpenVPN Versions Released Since 2005 Affected by Critical Flaw " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35990b6cefc42d78dc5f1f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Zerodium Publishes Prices for Zero-Day Exploits", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/zerodium-publishes-prices-zero-day-exploits", "Date" : "November 20, 2015", "Article" : "Exploit acquisition firm Zerodium is apparently trying to attract bug bounty hunters by making public the amounts of money itu2019s prepared to award for various vulnerabilities in popular software. The highest payout, up to $500,000, can be earned for a high quality zero-day exploit targeting Apple iOS. From September 21 through October 31, Zerodium ran a special bug bounty program offering up to $1 million for an iOS 9 exploit. The company said only one team won the bounty with a full chain of exploits for a remote and untethered iOS 9.1 and 9.2 jailbreak. After the announcement that someone hacked iOS 9, Chaouki Bekrar, founder of the controversial security firm Vupen and the man behind Zerodium, said on Twitter that despite the remote jailbreak he still feels safe using his iPhone and pointed out that attacking iOS costs ten times more than Android. Judging by the money offered by Zerodium for an Android zero-day exploit, it costs only five times more to hack iOS compared to Android u2014 the company is offering up to $100,000 for both Android and Windows Phone remote jailbreaks. In the case of Adobe Reader, Flash Player and Chrome, the maximum bounty is $80,000 for a remote code execution and sandbox escape combo. Bounty hunters can earn up to $50,000 for virtual machine (VM) escapes, RCE and sandbox escapes in Internet Explorer/Edge and Safari, and an RCE in Flash Player. RCE exploits for Chrome, IE, Edge, Tor Browser, Firefox and Safari are awarded with up to $30,000. The same amount can be earned for exploits targeting Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, Microsoft Office, and the Windows Reader app. Experts who manage to hack antiviruses, OpenSSL, PHP, Sendmail, Postfix, Exchange Server and Dovecot can get up to $40,000, the same amount as for an ASLR bypass. The lowest rewards, up to $5,000, are for forum software and content management systems (CMSs). Zerodium claims to provide its services to major defense, technology and finance corporations that need advanced zero-day protection, and government organizations requiring specific and tailored security capabilities. Zerodiumu2019s premium rewards might be tempting for many bug bounty hunters considering that tech giants such as Google and Microsoft pay far less for similar vulnerabilities. Furthermore, the Mobile Pwn2Own competition, which last year had a prize pool of more than $400,000, this year lost its main sponsor, HP, which cited concerns related to Japanu2019s implementation of the controversial Wassenaar Arrangement. The 2015 Mobile Pwn2Own took place as usual alongside the PacSec conference in Tokyo, but there were only a couple participants. Some of the experts who usually practice responsible disclosure might be tempted to report their findings to companies like Zerodium if high-paying competitions like Pwn2Own lose their sponsors. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599186cefc42d78dc5f32" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Patches Hundreds of Vulnerabilities Across Product Lines", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/apple-patches-hundreds-vulnerabilities-across-product-lines", "Date" : "March 28, 2017", "Article" : "Apple Patches Desktop, Mobile, Wearable Platforms to Fix More than 200 Security Vulnerabilities Apple on Monday released security patches for its macOS and macOS Server, iOS, watchOS, tvOS, Safari, and Pages, to address over 200 vulnerabilities. No less than 127 vulnerabilities were addressed with the release of macOS Sierra 10.12.4 (and Security Update 2017-001 El Capitan and Security Update 2017-001 Yosemite). These affected components such as apache, Audio, Bluetooth, FontParser, ImageIO, IOFireWireAVC, Kernel, OpenSSH, OpenSSL, QuickTime, Security, tcpdump, tiffutil, and WebKit. tcpdump was affected the most, as the tech giant resolved 41 vulnerabilities in this component alone. By leveraging these flaws, an attacker in a privileged network position could be able to execute arbitrary code with user assistance, Apple notes in its advisory. The company also resolved 11 bugs in Kernel and 8 flaws in tiffutil. Some of the flaws resolved in macOS Sierra 10.12.4 include memory corruption, inconsistent user interface issues, out-of-bound read, access and validation issues, buffer overflow, uncontrolled format string, timing side channel bug, profile uninstallation issue, use after free, and race condition. Many were addressed by improved input validation or improved memory handling. Tracked as CVE-2017-2485 and discovered by Cisco Talos, a memory corruption issue was found in the parsing of certificates and was addressed through improved input validation. According to Apple, the issue could lead to arbitrary code execution when processing a maliciously crafted x509 certificate. Talos reveals that this use-after-free vulnerability (which affects iOS as well) manifests due to improper handling of X.509v3 certificate extensions fields. u201cAn application that passes a malicious certificate to the certificate validation agent could trigger this vulnerability. Possible scenarios where this could be exploited include users connecting to a website which serves a malicious certificate to the client, Mail.app connecting to a mail server that provides a malicious certificate, or opening a malicious certificate file to import into the keychain,u201d the researchers say. The macOS Sierra 10.12.4 update also includes the security content of Safari 10.1, Apple says. In a separate advisory, the company explains that 38 bugs were squashed in the browser, 33 of which affect WebKit (three were found in WebKit JavaScript Bindings and WebKit Web Inspector). The security update addresses memory corruption, prototype access, keychain handling, information disclosure, and validation issues. iOS 10.3 was released on Monday with fixes for 84 flaws affecting Accounts, Audio, CoreGraphics, CoreText, FontParser, ImageIO, Kernel, libarchive, Profiles, Safari, Security, and WebKit, among other components (many of the fixed issues were impacting macOS, Safari). Some of the addressed flaws include a buffer overflow in the handling of font files, an infinite recursion, multiple memory corruption issues, out-of-bounds read bugs, or the sending of requests to iTunes sandbox web services in cleartext. Affecting how Safari handles JavaScript pop-ups, one of the flaws was abused by attackers to lock victims from using the browser and scare them into paying a ransom in the form of an iTunes Gift Card. Also released on Monday, tvOS 10.2 addresses 56 bugs, while watchOS 3.2 resolves 34 of them. Additionally, Apple pushed out macOS Server 5.3 to resolve 3 vulnerabilities (in Profile Manager, Web Server, and Wiki Server), and Pages 6.1, Numbers 4.1, and Keynote 7.1 for Mac and Pages 3.1, Numbers 3.1, and Keynote 3.1 for iOS, to address one issue in Export. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35991d6cefc42d78dc5f39" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches Tens of Critical Vulnerabilities in Android", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-patches-tens-critical-vulnerabilities-android", "Date" : "August 02, 2016", "Article" : "Google on Monday announced new security patches for the Android operating system, focusing mainly on resolving a series of critical bugs in drivers, some that had been reported years ago.  Last month, Google split the monthly Android patches in two parts, one focused on resolving issues within the platform itself, and the other focused on drivers and other components. This month, the latter focuses on flaws that have been largely ignored until now: 81 vulnerabilities affecting drivers and components, most of which were reported in 2014.  The first part of the monthly updates resolve 22 vulnerabilities in Android, including 3 Critical bugs in Mediaserver and 10 High severity and 9 Medium risk bugs in other components. Ever since Google first started issuing monthly patchesu00a0a year ago, the Mediaserver component has constantly received fixes for numerous vulnerabilities, a trend that could continue. The August 2016 Android security bulletin resolves three Remote Code Execution (RCE) flaws (CVE-2016-3819, CVE-2016-3820, and CVE-2016-3821) in Mediaserver, which could be triggered using a specially crafted file. The bugs affect Android 4.4.4, 5.0.2, 5.1.1, 6.0, and 6.0.1 versions and can be exploited via multiple applications, including messaging apps and browsers and are resolved on devices with security patch levels of 2016-08-01 or later. Of the 10 High severity bugs resolved this month, one RCE bug was found in libjhead (CVE-2016-3822), one Denial of service (DoS) in system clock (CVE-2016-3831), and eight issues were discovered in Mediaserver, namely four Elevation of Privilege (EoP) bugs (CVE-2016-3823, CVE-2016-3824, CVE-2016-3825, CVE-2016-3826) and four DoS flaws (CVE-2016-3827, CVE-2016-3828, CVE-2016-3829, CVE-2016-3830). All of these vulnerabilities affect Android 4.4.4 to 6.0.1, Googleu2019s security advisory reveals. The remaining 9 Medium risk issues included an EoP in framework APIs, an EoP in Shell, Information disclosure bugs in OpenSSL, camera APIs, Mediaserver, SurfaceFlinger and Wi-Fi, and DoS flaws in system UI and Bluetooth. Android 4.4.4, 5.0.2, 5.1.1, 6.0, and 6.0.1 releases are affected.  The same as last month, Qualcomm components received the most patches in Googleu2019s new security updates. These included 36 EoP flaws (one Critical u2013 CVE-2014-9863, 33 High risk, and 2 Moderate), 10 information disclosure bugs (2 High and 8 Moderate risk), 2 Critical EoPs in GPU driver, one Critical RCE in Wi-Fi driver (CVE-2014-9902), one Critical EoP in performance component, one High risk EoP in bootloader, one High risk DoS, and three other flaws, also considered High severity.  Security patch levels of 2016-08-05 or later resolve these vulnerabilities, as well as multiple other flaws, including a Critical RCE in Conscrypt, and two Critical EoPs in the kernel and in kernel networking components. High severity EoPs in kernel memory system, kernel sound component, kernel file system, Mediaserver, kernel video driver, Serial Peripheral Interface driver, NVIDIA media driver, ION driver, kernel performance subsystem, and LG Electronics bootloader were also patched.  Google also resolved High severity Information disclosure vulnerabilities in kernel scheduler, MediaTek Wi-Fi driver, and USB driver, along with Medium risk EoPs in Google Play services and Framework APIs, and Information disclosure vulnerabilities in kernel networking component and kernel sound component.  The majority of the vulnerabilities affecting the various Qualcomm components were reported in 2014, while many others were reported last year. Only some of them were reported this year. However, many of the flaws impacting other Android components were also two-year old bugs that havenu2019t been patched so far, despite some being critical. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599216cefc42d78dc5f42" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Rockwell Updates Stratix Routers to Patch Cisco IOS Flaws", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/rockwell-updates-stratix-routers-patch-cisco-ios-flaws", "Date" : "May 11, 2017", "Article" : "Rockwell Automation has released a firmware update for its Allen-Bradley Stratix 5900 services router to address tens of vulnerabilities patched over the past few years in Ciscou2019s IOS software. The Stratix 5900 is a hardened security router that runs Ciscou2019s IOS software. According to ICS-CERT, the product is used worldwide in the critical manufacturing, energy, and water and wastewater sectors. Firmware version 15.6.3 released recently by Rockwell Automation for its Stratix 5900 routers patches more than 60 vulnerabilities discovered in Cisco IOS since March 2014. This means that, for more than three years, organizations using these devices were left exposed to potential attacks exploiting these flaws. The list of security holes includes improper input validation, authentication, information exposure, path traversal, and resource management vulnerabilities that can be exploited for man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks, denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, and remote code execution. A majority of the flaws have been classified as high severity, and they can be exploited remotely without authentication. Cisco has not seen any evidence of exploitation in the wild, but for one vulnerability, tracked as CVE-2016-6415, the hacker group calling itself Shadow Brokers did release an exploit targeting Cisco PIX firewalls. The exploit in question may have been used in attacks by the NSA-linked Equation Group. Some of the vulnerabilities patched with the latest Stratix 5900 firmware update affect third-party components, such as NTP and OpenSSL. u201cRockwell Automation encourages users of the affected versions to update to the latest available software versions addressing the associated risk, and including improvements to further harden the software and enhance its resilience against similar malicious attacks,u201d ICS-CERT said in its advisory. This is the sixth advisory published by ICS-CERT this year for vulnerabilities in Rockwell Automation products. The organization previously disclosed critical, high and medium severity flaws affecting Logix5000, GuardLogix, FlexLogixu00a0and CompactLogix controllers, several Stratix switches, the Connected Components Workbench (CCW) software configuration platform, and the FactoryTalk Services Platform. Related Reading: Rockwell Automation Teams With Claroty on Industrial Network Security Related Reading: Flaw Allows Attackers to Modify Firmware on Rockwell PLCs Related Reading: Rockwell Patches Code Execution Flaw in RSLogix Product " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35992f6cefc42d78dc5f5a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Non-Security OpenSSL Bugs Lead to Serious Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/non-security-openssl-bugs-lead-serious-vulnerability", "Date" : "May 03, 2016", "Article" : "The OpenSSL Project released on Tuesday versions 1.0.2h and 1.0.1t to patch several vulnerabilities that can be exploited for denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, arbitrary code execution and traffic decryption. The latest versions of OpenSSL address a high severity flaw (CVE-2016-2107) that was introduced in 2013 as part of the fix for the Lucky 13 TLS attack. The vulnerability, reported on April 13 by Juraj Somorovsky, allows a man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacker to decrypt traffic when the connection uses an AES CBC cipher and the server supports AES-NI instructions. OpenSSL 1.0.2h and 1.0.1t also patch three low severity issues related to the incorrect handling of large amounts of input data by the EVP_EncodeUpdate() and EVP_EncryptUpdate() functions, and incorrect handling of memory when ASN.1 data is read from a BIO. These flaws have been assigned the CVE identifiers CVE-2016-2105, CVE-2016-2106 and CVE-2016-2109. The OpenSSL Project also informed users of a high severity vulnerability (CVE-2016-2108) that is a combination of two non-security bugs. One of them, reported in April 2015 by Huzaifa Sidhpurwala of Red Hat and independently by Hanno Bu00f6ck, is related to the mishandling of negative zero integers. The bug was patched in June 2015, without anyone being aware of its security impact. The second bug, related to the mishandling of large universal tags, was reported on March 1, 2016. David Benjamin of Google revealed on March 31 that the two bugs result in a potentially exploitable memory corruption vulnerability. An attacker can exploit the flaw to cause OpenSSL to crash and possibly even to execute arbitrary code. Here is the OpenSSL Projectu2019s technical description of CVE-2016-2108: u201cIn previous versions of OpenSSL, ASN.1 encoding the value zero represented as a negative integer can cause a buffer underflow with an out-of-bounds write in i2c_ASN1_INTEGER. The ASN.1 parser does not normally create u2018negative zeroesu2019 when parsing ASN.1 input, and therefore, an attacker cannot trigger this bug. u00a0 However, a second, independent bug revealed that the ASN.1 parser (specifically, d2i_ASN1_TYPE) can misinterpret a large universal tag as a negative zero value. Large universal tags are not present in any common ASN.1 structures (such as X509) but are accepted as part of ANY structures. u00a0 Therefore, if an application deserializes untrusted ASN.1 structures containing an ANY field, and later reserializes them, an attacker may be able to trigger an out-of-bounds write. This has been shown to cause memory corruption that is potentially exploitable with some malloc implementations.u201d Since the first bug was patched in June 2015 with the release of OpenSSL 1.0.2c and 1.0.1o, the attack method discovered by Googleu2019s David Benjamin does not work against these or more recent versions. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599336cefc42d78dc5f63" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Critical Flaws Found in Enterprise File Sharing Tool Filr", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/critical-flaws-found-enterprise-file-sharing-tool-filr", "Date" : "July 25, 2016", "Article" : "Enterprise software maker Micro Focus released security updates for its Filr product last week to patch several critical vulnerabilities discovered by researchers at SEC Consult. Filr is a file management and collaboration tool that allows enterprise users to access and share corporate files from any device. The product was initially developed by Novell, whose owner, the Attachmate Group, merged with Micro Focus in 2014. SEC Consult reported on Monday that one of its employees discovered no less than eight serious vulnerabilities affecting Filr versions 1.2 and 2.0. According to the security firm, the flaws can be exploited by an attacker to completely compromise the product. The list of security holes includes cross-site request forgery (CSRF), command injection, insecure file permission, authentication bypass, path traversal and persistent cross-site scripting (XSS) issues. An attacker can leverage these flaws to alter an applianceu2019s configuration, execute arbitrary code and commands, and upload arbitrary files. Researchers also discovered that the HttpOnly flag is not set for session cookies in the web interface. An attacker can leverage this in combination with the persistent XSS vulnerability to steal session cookies. The following CVE identifiers have been assigned to the vulnerabilities found by SEC Consult: CVE-2016-1607, CVE-2016-1608, CVE-2016-1609, CVE-2016-1610 and CVE-2016-1611. Micro Focus has published separate advisories for each of these weaknesses. The security holes were reported to the vendor on May 23 and they were addressed last week with the release of Filr 2.0 Security Update 2 and Filr 1.2 Security Update 3. The latest Filr updates also address the Samba vulnerability known as Badlock and an OpenSSL flaw disclosed in May. While most of the issues discovered by SEC Consult have been patched, there are a couple of bugs that Micro Focus will only patch in upcoming versions. For example, the HttpOnly issue could not be addressed because Micro Focus says a Filr component stops working properly if the flag is set. The security consulting firm pointed out that these vulnerabilities were identified during a u201cvery quicku201d security review. Users are advised to update their Filr installations as soon as possible, especially since PoC exploit code has been made available by SEC Consult. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35994b6cefc42d78dc5f85" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Severe OpenSSL Flaw Exposes TLS Traffic", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/severe-openssl-flaw-exposes-tls-traffic", "Date" : "January 29, 2016", "Article" : "It took the developers of OpenSSL just over two weeks to patch a high severity vulnerability that allows attackers to obtain information that could be used to decrypt secure traffic. The flaw, identified as CVE-2016-0701,u00a0was reported on January 12 by Antonio Sanso of Adobe and it was patched by the OpenSSL Project on Thursday with the release of version 1.0.2f. The researcheru2019s attack is based on a key recovery method described in a paper published in 1997. Starting with OpenSSL 1.0.2, developers introduced support for generating X9.42 style parameter files as required in RFC 5114. The problem is that the primes in these files may not be u201csafe,u201d which in certain circumstances could allow an attacker to obtain the key needed to decrypt traffic. In the case of applications using the Diffie-Hellman (DH) key exchange, such as TLS, if they are configured with parameters based on unsafe primes, an attacker could obtain enough information to recover the private DH exponent. For an attack to work, the attacker must complete multiple handshakes with the target, which must use the same private DH exponent each time. In the case of a TLS server, an attacker could obtain its private key and decrypt traffic if the server is reusing the private DH exponent or is using a static DH ciphersuite. OpenSSL has an option for using short-lived DH exponents in TLS, namely SSL_OP_SINGLE_DH_USE, but itu2019s not enabled by default. If the option is not enabled, the server uses the same private key until the server process is terminated, which exposes it to attacks. u201cIt is believed that many popular applications do set this option and would therefore not be at risk,u201d the OpenSSL Project said in its advisory. According to Sanso, the developers of LibreSSL deprecated the use of SSL_OP_SINGLE_DH_USE this week, while Googleu2019s BoringSSL removed support for the option months ago. The researcher says itu2019s unclear if these crypto libraries are affected when using a static DH ciphersuite. The OpenSSL Project addressed the issue by adding a check to detect attacks in the case of static ciphersuites and by enabling the SSL_OP_SINGLE_DH_USE option by default, but developers have warned that both solutions could have an impact on performance. OpenSSL 1.0.1r was also released on Thursday. This version patches a low severity SSLv2 cipher issue (CVE-2015-3197) and provides an update for the previous fix for the TLS vulnerability dubbed u201cLogjam.u201d These flaws also affect OpenSSL 1.0.2 so they have also been patched in version 1.0.2f. The OpenSSL Project has once again reminded users that versions 0.9.8 and 1.0.0 are no longer supported since December 31, 2015, and they donu2019t receive security updates. Support for version 1.0.1 will end on December 31, 2016. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599546cefc42d78dc5f94" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "TLS Communications Exposed to KCI Attacks: Researchers", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/tls-communications-exposed-kci-attacks-researchers", "Date" : "September 14, 2015", "Article" : "A flaw in the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol can allow man-in-the-middle attackers to access apparently encrypted communications, researchers have warned. Experts at Austria-based IT services provider Research Industrial Systems Engineering (RISE) presented their findings last month at the USENIX conference. Additional details on the attack method along with a video demonstrating its practicality have been published on Monday. TLS is designed to protect sensitive communications against cyberattacks. However, numerous research papers have been published over the past period to demonstrate the existence of various vulnerabilities that expose encrypted communications, including Logjam and Bar Mitzvah. The new method, dubbed u201cKey Compromise Impersonation (KCI) attack,u201d leverages a vulnerability in the protocol specification of TLS. The technique allows an MitM attacker to gain complete control over the client-side code running in the victimu2019s browser. Malicious actors can eavesdrop on communications, replace legitimate elements on a website with arbitrary content, and even perform actions on the victimu2019s behalf. In the first phase of the attack, the attacker tricks the user into installing a TLS client certificate for which they possess the private key. Then, by interfering with the initialization of the TLS protocol between the client and the server, the attacker can trick the client into believing that itu2019s communicating with the legitimate server when in reality itu2019s talking to the attacker. By initiating a normal, encrypted connection to the server, the attacker can control the data that goes from the client to the server and vice versa. u201cFor many web and mobile applications, a successful attack means that a user's session or profile is completely compromised and under the control of the attacker from this point on: Electronic payments may be initiated and re-directed to the attacker's account, private messages could be read and spoofed, etc. Possible damage is in most cases only limited by the attacker's imagination and creativity,u201d researchers explained. A proof-of-concept (PoC) video published by experts shows a KCI attack scenario in which the attacker targets hotel guests using a rogue Wi-Fi network. The attacker tricks the victim into installing the malicious certificate by informing them that the certificate is needed to access the hotelu2019s Internet connection. Once the certificate has been accepted, the attacker interferes with the initialization of the connection to Facebook and forces the client to use an insecure handshake with client authentication. The attacker then replaces the pictures and other elements on the victimu2019s Facebook profile with arbitrary content. According to researchers, the problem affects services that support a certain class of key agreement and authentication methods, namely non-ephemeral Diffie-Hellman key exchange with fixed Diffie-Hellman client authentication. Experts said they reported their findings to Google, Microsoft and Apple before public disclosure so users running popular web browsers on recent operating system versions should be safe. Facebook has also taken steps to protect users against potential KCI attacks. u201cThe immediate impact is not as serious as, for example, the one from the recent Logjam attack, because support for the necessary options in TLS clients and servers (both is necessary) is currently not as widespread as a malicious attacker would hope for,u201d researchers explained. u201cHowever, without adequate measures, this situation could change anytime in the future: Recently, OpenSSL developers have just added support for the vulnerable fixed DH handshake to the newest branch (1.0.2) of the library, and they seemed to be on track for also adding support for the fixed ECDH handshake option.u201d The complete paper, titled u201cPrying open Pandorau2019s box: KCI attacks against TLS,u201d is available online in PDF format. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599636cefc42d78dc5fac" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Patches Tens of Vulnerabilities in iOS, OS X", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/apple-patches-tens-vulnerabilities-ios-os-x", "Date" : "July 19, 2016", "Article" : "Apple released on Monday security updates for OS X, iOS, watchOS, tvOS, Safari, iTunes and iCloud to address tens of vulnerabilities identified by the companyu2019s employees and external researchers. OS X El Capitan 10.11.6 fixes a total of 60 security bugs affecting components such as audio, CFNetwork, CoreGraphics, FaceTime, graphics drivers, ImageIO, the kernel, the login window, OpenSSL, QuickTime, sandbox profiles, and the libxml2 and libxslt libraries. The CFNetwork vulnerability, tracked as CVE-2016-4645, was reported to Apple by Abhinav Bansal of Zscaler. The security firm published a blog post on Monday to describe the flaw that allows unprivileged applications to access cookies stored in the Safari browser. u201cThis access could result in a malicious application lifting all the persistent cookies for a given user and accessing sites posing as that user,u201d Zscaler said. u201cIn the case of email, it could result in a malicious application getting access to all your email. Worse, it could gain access to a site that stores more personal and confidential information about you.u201d In the case of iOS, version 9.3.3 resolves a total of 43 vulnerabilities, including many that also affect OS X. One of the flaws specific to iOS allows an attacker with physical access to a device to abuse Siri to view private contact information. Since watchOS and tvOS are heavily based on iOS, many of the vulnerabilities patched in iOS have also been fixed in the Apple Watch and Apple TV operating systems. Safari 9.1.2 patches a dozen security holes in the WebKit engine. iCloud for Windows 5.2.1 and iTunes 12.4.2 for Windows address 15 memory corruption and information disclosure vulnerabilities affecting the libxml2 and libxslt libraries. Itu2019s worth pointing out that these flaws also affect iOS, OS X, tvOS and watchOS. The libxml2 and libxslt issues have been identified by Wei Lei and Liu Yang of Nanyang Technological University, Gustavo Grieco, Nick Wellnhofer, Nicolas Gru00e9goire, Kostya Serebryany, Hanno Boeck and Michael Paddon. libxml2 is a library used for parsing XML documents and itu2019s the basis for libxslt, which processes XSLT-1.0 stylesheets. Related Reading: Apple Wants All iOS Apps to Use HTTPS by 2017 Related Reading: Apple Patches RCE Flaw in AirPort Routers Related Reading: Apple Pulls Jailbreak Detection App from App Store " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35996e6cefc42d78dc5fbe" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL to Patch High Severity Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-patch-high-severity-vulnerability", "Date" : "January 25, 2016", "Article" : "The OpenSSL Project announced today that upcoming releases of the cryptographic software library will address two security flaws. OpenSSL 1.0.2f and 1.0.1r are scheduled for release on January 28 between 1pm and 5pm UTC. One of the vulnerabilities, which affects 1.0.2 releases, has been rated u201chigh severity,u201d while the second flaw, rated u201clow severity,u201d impacts all releases. According to the OpenSSL Project's security policy, high severity issues are considered of lower risk compared to critical vulnerabilities because they affect less common configurations or are less likely to be exploitable. High severity issues are kept private until they are patched with a new release for all supported versions. The OpenSSL Project aims to fix such flaws within a month. In its pre-release announcement, the OpenSSL Project pointed out that support for the 1.0.0 and 0.9.8 releases ended on December 31, 2015, and they will no longer receive security updates. Support for version 1.0.1 will end on December 31, 2016. In early December, the OpenSSL Project announced versions 1.0.2e, 1.0.1q, 1.0.0t and 0.9.8zh to address three moderate severity vulnerabilities reported by Lou00efc Jonas Etienne of Qnective AG, Googleu2019s Adam Langley, and researcher Hanno Bu00f6ck. Two low severity issues were also addressed at the time. Last year, a total of 31 vulnerabilities were patched in OpenSSL with the release of ten updates. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35998c6cefc42d78dc6008" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches 108 Vulnerabilities in Android", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-patches-108-vulnerabilities-android", "Date" : "July 07, 2016", "Article" : "Google Splits July Android Security Update Into Two Parts Google on Wednesday published an advisory for its latest security updates for theu00a0Android operating system (OS), revealing that a total of 108 vulnerabilities were resolved in the popular mobile platform. The Internet giant decided to split this monthu2019s update into two parts, one to fix 33 flaws that impact all Android devices out there, and another to include patches for 75 device specific vulnerabilities in various drivers. This is the first time a monthly update has been split in two and focuses on drivers, but not without reason: last month, Google resolved 16 flaws in Qualcomm drivers, after a critical issue in the Qualcomm Secure Execution Environment (QSEE) was found to affect 60% of all Android devices. In addition to this flaw, several other security bugs in Qualcomm software were discovered over the past few months, including one in the Qualcomm tethering controller that allows a malicious application to access user information. Last week, a researcher revealed that a Critical flaw in the Qualcomm Secure Execution Environment (QSEE) could be exploited to bypass the Full Device Encryption (FDE) security feature in Android 5.0 Lollipop.  The Mediasever component that determined Google last year to start issuing monthly security patches for Android devices is present in the July security bulletin as well. A total of 14 vulnerabilities were resolved in Mediaserver this month, including 7 that were deemed Critical, 4 rated High, and 3 assessed with a Medium severity rating.  The Critical vulnerabilities in Mediaserver can be exploited for remote code execution, if the attacker sends a specially crafted file to the affected device. Playing the file would cause memory corruption and the attacker could compromise the entire device, because of the privileges that the Mediaserver process has within the OS. Google also resolved a Critical Remote Code Execution (RCE) issue in OpenSSL & BoringSSL, which could be exploited to cause memory corruption during file and data processing. This flaw, as well as most of the Critical bugs fixed in Mediaserver, affected Android versions 4.4.4, 5.0.2, 5.1.1, 6.0, and 6.0.1, Googleu2019s advisory reveals. Among the High risk issues patched in Android this month, there are several EOP vulnerabilities in libpng, Mediaserver, sockets, LockSettingsService, Framework APIs, and ChooserTarget, an RCE bug in Bluetooth, a couple of Information disclosure vulnerabilities in Mediaserver and OpenSSL, and Denial of service flaws in Mediaserver and libc.  Of the 75 vulnerabilities resolved in various drivers, 15 were rated Critical, all of them being Elevation of privilege issues. They were found to affect the drivers for Qualcomm GPU in Nexus 5X, Nexus 6, and Nexus 6P; MediaTek Wi-Fi in Android One; NVIDIA video in Nexus 9; MediaTek components in Android One; and USB component in multiple Nexus devices.  Affected components also included the Qualcomm performance component and kernel file system, as well as various other Qualcomm components in Nexus 5, Nexus 7 (2013), Nexus 5X, and Nexus 6P. By leveraging these vulnerabilities, a malicious application could execute arbitrary code within the context of the affected component, Google said.  Just like last month, Qualcomm components were affected the most, with a total of 40 flaws in them resolved with the July set of patches, including Critical, High, and Medium severity issues. Multiple vulnerabilities in MediaTek and Nvidia drivers were also patched this month. As mentioned above, this monthu2019s patches were split into two parts, one to resolve issues in all Android devices, and the other to fix only device specific problems. Thus, users will see on their devices one of the two announced patch levels: 2016-07-01 for general issues in the platform, and 2016-07-05, for the general fixes and the driver-related ones. Nexus devices are already receiving the new security update, which will also be pushed to the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) shortly. Google notified its manufacturing partners on these issues on June 6 or earlier and they are expected to release similar updates to their users too. In fact, BlackBerry says the patches are already on the way to its Android-powered smartphones. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599a06cefc42d78dc603c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patches Serious Certificate Forgery Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-patches-serious-certificate-forgery-vulnerability", "Date" : "July 09, 2015", "Article" : "The developers of OpenSSL have released versions 1.0.2d and 1.0.1p to address a high severity vulnerability that can be exploited by an attacker to bypass certain untrusted certificate checks and issue invalid certificates. The issue, described by OpenSSL as an alternative chain certificate forgery flaw (CVE-2015-1793), was introduced with OpenSSL versions 1.0.1n and 1.0.2b released last month. According to an advisory published on Thursday morning, the vulnerability is related to the certificate verification process. If the first attempt to build a certificate chain fails, OpenSSL will try to identify an alternative chain. u201cAn error in the implementation of this logic can mean that an attacker could cause certain checks on untrusted certificates to be bypassed, such as the CA flag, enabling them to use a valid leaf certificate to act as a CA and u2018issueu2019 an invalid certificate,u201d the OpenSSL Project team explained. u201cThis issue will impact any application that verifies certificates including SSL/TLS/DTLS clients and SSL/TLS/DTLS servers using client authentication.u201d The vulnerability was reported to the developers of the SSL/TLS toolkit on June 24 by Googleu2019s Adam Langley and David Benjamin, who both work on BoringSSL, the search giantu2019s own version of OpenSSL. OpenSSL developers noted that the fix for CVE-2015-1793 was developed by members of the BoringSSL project. This bug affects OpenSSL versions 1.0.2c, 1.0.2b, 1.0.1n and 1.0.1o. It does not impact the 1.0.0 or 0.9.8 releases, OpenSSL said. Users of OpenSSL 1.0.2b and 1.0.2c are advised to upgrade their installations to version 1.0.2d, while OpenSSL 1.0.1n and 1.0.1o users should upgrade to version 1.0.1p. "Exploiting the OpenSSL vulnerability (CVE-2015-1793) is not quick or easy, making it nowhere near as serious as Heartbleed. For starters, an attacker canu2019t simply directly attack a vulnerable server due to the nature of the vulnerability," Veracode's VP of Research, Chris Eng, told SecurityWeek.u00a0"Going after an individual is also challenging since the major browsers u2013 Chrome, Firefox, IE u2013 donu2019t use OpenSSL. Even if a user with a vulnerable niche browser were to be targeted, the culprit would have to first deploy a man-in-the-middle (MitM) attack to get access to the browser itself. From there, they would need to serve a forged certificate to the browser directly." "Since the bug only affects a few OpenSSL versions that were released in June 2015, major operating systems like RHEL, Ubuntu and CentOS are not vulnerable since they hadnu2019t yet incorporated the problematic updates at time of release. To be clear, this is a bad vulnerability and a nice find by the BoringSSL team; however, the overall impact is expected to be minimal," Eng added. OpenSSL developers also took this opportunity to remind users that versions 1.0.0 and 0.9.8 will no longer be supported starting with December 31, 2015. After this date, security updates will not be provided for these versions. The fact that it consists of more than 500,000 lines of code makes OpenSSL difficult to maintain and researchers constantly uncover security flaws. None of the recently patched bugs are as serious as Heartbleed, the OpenSSL weakness that exposed millions of websites last year. However, since another Heartbleed could be discovered at any moment, experts are advising users to consider alternatives. One alternative would be Amazonu2019s s2n, a new open source implementation of TLS designed to be simple, small, fast, and secure. s2n consists of only 6,000 lines of code and it has already undergone three external security evaluations and penetration tests. Amazon plans on integrating s2n into several AWS services in the upcoming period. *Updated with information fromu00a0Chris Eng. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599af6cefc42d78dc6066" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "DoS Vulnerability Patched in Node.js", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/dos-vulnerability-patched-nodejs", "Date" : "July 07, 2015", "Article" : "The stable channel of Node.js has been updated to version 0.12.6. The latest version of the platform fixes a vulnerability that can be exploited for denial-of-service (DoS) attacks. The vulnerability, which impacts all Buffer to String conversions, is caused by an out-of-band write in V8's utf-8 decoder. u201cThis is an important security update as this bug can be used to cause a denial of service attack,u201d the developers wrote in the release notes. Last month, the Node 0.10.39 maintenance release was made available to upgrade OpenSSL to version 1.0.1o. The OpenSSL updates addresses several vulnerabilities, including two issues that affect Node.js. One of the OpenSSL issues impacting Node.js is Logjam, a bug that can be leveraged via man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks to downgrade TLS connections to 512-bit export-grade cryptography. The second issue is a DoS vulnerability caused by the way ECParameters structures are handled (CVE-2015-1788). Node.js is an asynchronous event-driven framework designed for building scalable network applications. The platform has been used by some of the worldu2019s largest enterprise solutions vendors, including IBM, Amazon, Microsoft, Oracle, and CA Technologies. The use of an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model makes Node.js a lightweight and efficient platform that is ideal for data-intensive real-time applications that run across distributed devices. However, the use of a single-threaded event loop means that Node.js is not recommended for CPU intensive applications and ones that involve heavy lifting. In a presentation at the recent Infosecurity Europe conference, Helen Bravo, head of product management at Checkmarx, explained that the single thread architecture makes Node.js highly vulnerable to DoS attacks. In addition, Node.js is also vulnerable to a type of attack known as regular expression denial-of-service (ReDoS), which exploits the fact that regular expression implementations can encounter situations that cause them to work very slowly. ReDoS attacks against Node.js applications are possible when input length, structure, and permitted characters are not properly validated. Input validation is also essential for protecting Node.js applications against SQL injection attacks, Bravo noted. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599b16cefc42d78dc606b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Preparing Updates to Patch High Severity Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-preparing-updates-patch-high-severity-vulnerability", "Date" : "July 06, 2015", "Article" : "OpenSSL versions 1.0.2d and 1.0.1p will be released later this week to address a serious security bug, the OpenSSL Project Team announced on Monday. According to the developers of the popular open-source toolkit for SSL/TLS, OpenSSL 1.0.2d and 1.0.1p will be released on Thursday, July 9, and they will fix a single high severity vulnerability. No other details have been made available, except for the fact that the security hole does not affect the 1.0.0 or 0.9.8 releases. The announcement comes less than a month after OpenSSL versions 1.0.2b, 1.0.1n, 1.0.0s and 0.9.8zg were released to address several moderate and low severity bugs, most of which can be exploited for denial-of-service (DoS) attacks. The latest versions also patch Logjam (CVE-2015-4000), a TLS bug that can be exploited through man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks to downgrade connections to 512-bit export-grade cryptography. The vulnerability allows an attacker to read and alter encrypted data. Researchers often uncover vulnerabilities in OpenSSL. The most widely publicized of them was Heartbleed, a bug that exposed millions of websites to cyberattacks. Heartbleed represented a wakeup call for the industry and many major organizations pledged support for OpenSSL through the Linux Foundationu2019s Core Infrastructure Initiative after the existence of the bug came to light. However, the more than 500,000 lines of code make it difficult to maintain and review OpenSSL, which is why some organizations have started suggesting alternatives. Amazon announced last week the availability of s2n, a new open source implementation of TLS that consists of only 6,000 lines of code. While it cannot replace OpenSSL completely because it doesnu2019t provide a general purpose cryptography library, Amazonu2019s implementation of TLS might make its way to some popular services. Amazon says it will integrate s2n into several of its AWS services over the coming months. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599bc6cefc42d78dc6085" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Study Analyzes Corporate Security Practices Across Industries", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/study-analyzes-corporate-security-practices-across-industries", "Date" : "October 01, 2015", "Article" : "PRAGUE - Virus Bulletin 2015 - An analysis of the vulnerabilities discovered in the systems of organizations in various industries provides some insight on the most common types of flaws and the time it takes to address them. Clint Gibler, a software security engineer at NCC Groupu2019s Domain Services division and the author of the study, detailed the findings on Wednesday at the Virus Bulletin conference in Prague. Running a commercial scanner on the systems of 100 organizations across ten industry verticals between February 2014 and May 2015 revealed a total of 908,000 security issues. The sectors analyzed by the researcher include charity, energy and utilities, financial services, health, IT, leisure and media, public sector (education and local), retail, and transport. Itu2019s worth noting that the number of scans, the tools used and the mode in which they were run are different between industries and between companies, which increases the difficulty of making overall statements or generalizations. However, Gibler told SecurityWeek in an interview that the data can be useful for helping organizations determine where they stand compared to others in the same industry. As part of this research, the systems of the targeted charity organizations underwent roughly 30 scans which led to an average of more than 4,200 findings, just over half of which were classified as true positives after they were manually vetted by a technical account manager. A much larger number of vulnerabilities have been identified in other sectors, but the percentage of false positives was significantly higher in some cases. u00a0 The 49-89 percent false positive rates show that using a managed service that vets scanner reports and removes false positives can be highly valuable for companies as it saves them the time and resources needed to extract useful information from all the noise, Gibler said. The study found that across all companies, the most prevalent types of issues were related to web application security, particularly flaws affecting the web server or language in which the web application was written. The scans also revealed numerous network issues, mainly related to crypto (SSH, SSL, PKI), and failure to meet web application best practices. One interesting vertical is the transport industry, where a large majority of the security issues uncovered by the scanners were vulnerabilities impacting the web server or language in which the web app was written. Once affected companies were notified about the existence of the flaws, the vulnerable Linux packages were all updated within a 20 week timeframe. On the other hand, only 75 percent of Microsoft patches were applied in a similar timeframe, with 10 percent of the Microsoft product issues being left unresolved even after a year. The researcher discovered that security bugs requiring more environment-specific solutions take longer to fix, and there is a higher chance that they will remain unresolved. These types of issues can include disabling a vulnerable service, reconfiguring default accounts, removing files, and updating configurations. Overall, issues related to cryptography, such as updating OpenSSL and reconfiguring SSL, have a patching rate of roughly 60 percent within a 30 week timeframe. However, the report points out that such weaknesses are less likely to be resolved compared to other types of issues. As for web applications, over half of the identified vulnerabilities were fixed by affected organizations within ten weeks after learning of their existence. Overall, the report shows that more than half of the vulnerabilities are generally patched within 10-20 weeks, while the rest are addressed more slowly. u201cWe feel this intuitively makes sense, as an organization will likely make an initial large push towards addressing the security issues they are informed about. However, the issues that are not resolved in the initial push are addressed slowly, when time permits, over the subsequent months,u201d Gibler explained. The study shows a large disparity between industries in the time to fix and the overall percentage of fixed issues. When it comes to host-based vulnerabilities -- those related to an operating system, a database, or out-of-date software -- the transport industry addressed most of the identified flaws within a ten week period. On the other hand, it took companies in the IT industry 35 weeks to resolve just half of the vulnerabilities. The transport industry has also been efficient in patching network-related security bugs. However, the report notes that no industry resolved more than 90 percent of network-related issues, and half of the targeted sectors resolved roughly 60 percent of the flaws. Companies in the transport and health sectors managed to address 90 percent of the web application findings in under ten weeks. At the other end of the chart we find charities, IT firms, public sector organizations, and retailers, which needed 30-50 weeks to address 60-70 percent of the web application vulnerabilities. u201cOf all three groups, host-based findings are resolved at the highest rate across industries, followed by web application and lastly network-related findings. As one might expect, the financial services industry resolved one of the highest percentages of findings in each of the categories, though not necessarily the most quickly,u201d Gibler said. Each of the identified vulnerabilities was classified based on its CVSS score. However, the report shows that the severity of the uncovered issues does not have a direct impact on the time to fix. u201cCVSS score does not appear to have a direct impact on the speed with which a finding is resolved, as in the first 10 weeks, findings with a score of between 3 and 6 are more likely to be resolved than those in the range of 7u201310,u201d the researcher noted. u201cOne potential explanation for this behaviour is that findings with a lower CVSS score are easier to address and are thus resolved quickly, while more serious findings require more effort and are thus addressed more gradually.u201d The complete report will become available in the coming days. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599bf6cefc42d78dc608b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Amazon Releases New Open Source Implementation of TLS Protocol", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/amazon-releases-new-open-source-implementation-tls-protocol", "Date" : "July 01, 2015", "Article" : "Amazon announced on Tuesday the availability of s2n, a new open source implementation of the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol that is designed to be simple, small, fast, and secure. Numerous TLS vulnerabilities have been discovered over the past period, and bugs such as Heartbleed have shown that popular implementations such as OpenSSL are not always the best choice. s2n, which is short for u201csignal to noise,u201d implements SSLv3, TLS 1.0, TLS 1.1, and TLS 1.2. It supports AES-128 and AES-256 in CBC and GCM modes, 3DES, and RC4. s2n supports both DHE and ECDHE for forward secrecy. The Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP), Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN), and Server Name Indicator (SNI) TLS extensions are also supported. However, Amazon has pointed out that SSLv3, DHE and RC4 are disabled by default for security reasons. u201cAs it can be difficult to keep track of which encryption algorithms and protocols are best to use, s2n features a simple API to use the latest u2018defaultu2019 set of preferences. If you prefer to remain on a specific version for backwards compatibility, that is also supported,u201d Amazon said. According to Stephen Schmidt, VP of security engineering and CISO at AWS, s2n will be integrated into several AWS services over the coming months. u201cTLS is a standardized protocol and s2n already implements the functionality that we use, so this wonu2019t require any changes in your own applications and everything will remain interoperable,u201d Schmidt noted in a blog post. OpenSSL, which has been under development since 1998, has more than 500,000 lines of code. This makes auditing and security reviews a difficult task. In contrast, s2n only has 6,000 lines of code and it has already undergone three external security evaluations and penetration tests. However, Schmidt has pointed out that s2n isnu2019t intended as a replacement for OpenSSL, which Amazon supports through the Linux Foundationu2019s Core Infrastructure Initiative. Furthermore, Schmidt has highlighted the fact that s2n is just an implementation of TLS and it doesnu2019t provide a general purpose cryptography library, such as the u201clibcryptou201d library in OpenSSL. Those interested in using or contributing to s2n can find the source code and documentation on GitHub. The project is available under the Apache Software License 2.0. Experts who find security bugs in s2n are advised to report them to AWS via the vulnerability reporting page. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599c36cefc42d78dc6097" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Patches Recently Disclosed Mac EFI Security Bugs", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/apple-patches-recently-disclosed-mac-efi-security-bugs", "Date" : "July 01, 2015", "Article" : "Apple Security Updates Patch Bugs in OS X, iOS, Safari, iTunes, QuickTime Apple has released security updates for many of its products, including patches for the recently disclosed EFI vulnerabilities dubbed u201cDark Jediu201d and u201cRowhammer.u201d The EFI updates are available for OS X Mountain Lion v10.8.5, OS X Mavericks v10.9.5, and OS X Yosemite v10.10 through v10.10.3. These updates patch an issue that can be exploited for rootkit attacks. One of the involved bugs, dubbed u201cDark Jedi,u201d was disclosed by Rafal Wojtczuk and Corey Kallenberg last year at the Chaos Communication Congress (CCC) and it allows a local attacker to bypass firmware write protections on EFI systems from Dell, Intel, American Megatrends Incorporated (AMI), Lenovo, and Phoenix Technologies. Researcher Trammell Hudson determined that the Dark Jedi attack works against Apple EFI as well because BIOS protection registers are unlocked after an S3 suspend/resume cycle. While analyzing these issues, Pedro Vilaca (@osxreverser) determined that an attacker could overwrite the contents of the BIOS on Apple devices from userland and install a rootkit simply by letting the computer sleep for a few seconds. Vilaca initially believed Apple was aware of this issue, but it later turned out to be a zero-day flaw. Apple noted in an advisory that this insufficient locking issue (CVE-2015-3692) can be exploited by a malicious application with root privileges to modify the EFI flash memory. The company has credited Hudson, Kallenberg, Vilau00e7a and Xeno Kovah for discovering the vulnerability. Vilaca published additional technical details on this vulnerability on Tuesday and even detailed the steps for building a temporary fix. The second Mac EFI vulnerability patched by Apple is known as u201cRowhammer.u201d This issue, related to dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) disturbance errors, has been known to exist since at least 2012. However, researchers demonstrated its security implications only in 2014, and in March of this year experts from Google showed that it can be exploited to gain kernel privileges on Linux and possibly other systems. Apple says the vulnerability (CVE-2015-3693) allows a malicious application to induce memory corruption and escalate privileges. The flaw has been addressed by increasing memory refresh rates. OS X, iOS, Safari, iTunes, QuickTime security updates OS X Yosemite 10.10.4 patches an additional 75 vulnerabilities, including issues with afpserver, Apache, AppleGraphicsControl, AppleFSCompression, ATS, Bluetooth, CoreText, coreTLS, display drivers, graphics drivers, the kernel, kext tools, Mail, NTP, OpenSSL SpotLight, the unzip tool, and systemstatsd. Apple has once again attempted to fix the privilege escalation vulnerability known as u201crootpipe.u201d The company released a patch for the bug discovered by Emil Kvarnhammar from TrueSec back in April, but as several researchers pointed out at the time, the patch was ineffective. With the release of iOS 8.4, Apple has addressed a total of 33 vulnerabilities identified by the companyu2019s own security team and external researchers. Some of these flaws were discovered by researchers from FireEye, who demonstrated that they can demolish apps, break the app data container, and hijack VPN traffic through a method they have dubbed u201cMasque attacks.u201d The latest version of Appleu2019s mobile operating systems also resolves security bugs related to Wi-Fi connectivity, the WebKit engine, telephony, SQLiteu2019s printf implementation, Safari, Mail, the kernel, and components such as CoreGraphics, CoreText, CoreTLS, DiskImage, FontParser, and ImageIO. With the release of Safari 8.0.7, Safari 7.1.7, and Safari 6.2.7, Apple has addressed a total of four WebKit-related vulnerabilities. Apple also patched 39 flaws in iTunes 12.2, and nine bugs in QuickTime 7.7.7. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599d66cefc42d78dc60c9" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Critical Vulnerability Impacting Hotel Wifi Networks Uncovered", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/critical-vulnerability-impacting-hotel-wifi-networks-uncovered", "Date" : "March 26, 2015", "Article" : "A serious security hole affecting a popular Internet gateway device used in hotels and convention centers has been closed. The vulnerability affects ANTlabs' InnGate, which is designed for operating corporate visitor-based networks. According to security firm Cylance, the vulnerability can be exploited to allow an attacker to monitor or tamper with traffic to and from any hotel Wifi user's connection and potentially gain access to a hotel's property management system. Cylance reports that 277 hotels, convention centers and data centers across 29 countries are affected. At its core, the vulnerability is due to a misconfigured rsync instance included in the InnGate firmware. If exploited, the attacker would have read/write access to the entire file system without authentication. "CVE-2015-0932u00a0gives an attacker full read and write access to the file system of an ANTLabsu2019 InnGate device," explained Brian Wallace, senior researcher at Cylance, in a blog post. "Remote access is obtained through an unauthenticated rsync daemon running on TCP 873. Once the attacker has connected to the rsync daemon, they are then able to read and write to the file system of the Linux based operating system without restriction." "When an attacker gains full read and write access to a Linux file system, itu2019s trivial to then turn that into remote code execution," he continued. "The attacker could upload a backdoored version of nearly any executable on the system and then gain execution control, or simply add an additional user with root level access and a password known to the attacker. Once full file system access is obtained, the endpoint is at the mercy of the attacker." If an attacker has compromised a vulnerable InnGate device at a hotel, obtained shell access via SSH and created an account for themselves with root access, they could run tcpdump and dump all network traffic going through the devices. This would allow an attacker to collect any plaintext communication sent through the gateway of the affected hotel or location, Wallace blogged. "A slightly more sophisticated attacker could use a tool such asu00a0SSLStripu00a0in order to attempt to downgrade the transport layer encryption in order to increase the amount of plaintext credentials gathered," Wallace noted. "This attack gives the threat actor incredible leverage over their targets including makingu00a0OpenSSL vulnerabilitiesu00a0easier to exploit." ANTlabs released a patch for the issue today. The vulnerable devices include:u00a0u00a0u00a0 Hotel networks offer a potentially attractive target for cyber-espionage groups. Last year, an advanced persistent threat (APT) group was discovered targeting Wifi networks at hotels in Asia. In addition, the FBI and the Internet Crime Complaint Center warned in 2012 that attackers were targeting travelers abroad through malicious pop-up windows when they established an Internet connection in their hotel rooms.u00a0 "While the DarkHotel campaign was clearly carried out by an advanced threat actor with a large number of resources, CVE-2015-0932 is a very simple vulnerability with devastating impact," Wallace wrote. "The severity of this issue is escalated by how little sophistication is required for an attacker to exploit it." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599d76cefc42d78dc60cd" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Critical DoS Flaw Patched in BIND", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/critical-dos-flaw-patched-bind", "Date" : "December 16, 2015", "Article" : "The Internet Systems Consortium (ISC) announced on Tuesday the availability of BIND updates that address several vulnerabilities, including a remotely exploitable denial-of-service (DoS) issue that has been rated critical. BIND versions 9.10.3-P2, 9.9.8-S3 and 9.9.8-P2 address three new vulnerabilities. The most serious of them is a flaw that can be exploited to launch DoS attacks against servers performing recursive queries (CVE-2015-8000). u201cAn attacker who can cause a server to request a record with a malformed class attribute can use this bug to trigger a REQUIRE assertion in db.c, causing named to exit and denying service to clients,u201d ISC noted in its advisory. u201cThe risk to recursive servers is high. Authoritative servers are at limited risk if they perform authentication when making recursive queries to resolve addresses for servers listed in NS RRSETs.u201d The issue affects BIND versions 9.0.x through 9.9.8 and 9.10.0 through 9.10.3. The vulnerability is remotely exploitable and has been rated critical, but ISC says itu2019s not aware of any active exploits. Another security hole patched in the latest versions of the popular DNS software is a medium severity race condition triggered when handling socket errors (CVE-2015-8461). The flaw can cause a server to exit when encountering an INSIST assertion failure in the u201cresolver.cu201d library. u201cAn uncommonly occurring condition can cause affected servers to exit with an INSIST failure depending on the outcome of a race condition in resolver.c While difficult to exploit reliably, a malicious party could, through deliberate behavior, significantly increase the probability of encountering the triggering condition, resulting in denial-of-service to clients if successful,u201d ISC said. The latest BIND updates also fix an OpenSSL vulnerability (CVE-2015-3193) patched by the OpenSSL Project in early December. The flaw is related to the u201cBN_mod_expu201d function, which could produce incorrect results on x86_64 systems. While there is no evidence that any of these security holes have been exploited in the wild, attacks targeting DNS servers running BIND are not unheard of. In August, researchers reported seeing attacks that leveraged a DoS vulnerability patched just a few days earlier. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599e66cefc42d78dc60f5" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Core Infrastructure Initiative Funds Three New Projects", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/core-infrastructure-initiative-funds-three-new-projects", "Date" : "June 22, 2015", "Article" : "The Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII), a project managed by The Linux Foundation, announced on Monday that it has committed financial support of nearly $500,000 for three new projects to better support critical security elements of the Internet.   Launched in 2014 as the industry's response to the Heartbleed crisis, the initiative aims to bring technology companies together to identify and fund open source projects that are widely used in core computing and Internet functions.u00a0 With OpenSSL, Network Time Protocol (NTP) and OpenSSH as the first projects to receive support from the initiative, the CII's latest support will be put toward a new open source automated testing project, the Reproducible Builds initiative from Debian, and IT security researcher Hanno Bu00f6ck's Fuzzing Project. u00a0  u201cThe CII provides funding for key developers to work full-time on open source projects, security audits, computing and test infrastructure, travel, face-to-face meeting coordination and other support,u201d the Linux Foundation Explained.   Here is an overview of the latest CII Grants and Projects announced by The Linux Foundation:  Reproducible Builds - For distributions like Debian and Fedora, it is essential that the machines used to build binaries distributed to users have not been compromised by unknown attackers. Reproducible builds enable anyone to reproduce bit by bit identical binary packages from a given source, thus enabling anyone to independently verify that a binary matches the source code from which it was said it was derived. Without it, even with software containing carefully audited source code, it is much harder to detect if binaries have been tampered with before they get in the hands of users.  Compiler output usually differs from one version to another. Even when reproducing the original build environment as closely as possible, specific information about the process such as date and time or ordering of files can introduce hard-to-understand variations in the build results. Enabling easy ways to record and restore a given build environment and making the compilation processes fully deterministic by removing or normalizing variations allows anyone to verify for themselves that the file they received was exactly what the developers intended.  Debian developers Holger Levsen and Ju00e9ru00e9my Bobbio are steering an effort to eliminate unneeded variations from the build processes of thousands of free software projects, as well as provide tools to understand the source of these differences and update the infrastructure to allow developers to independently verify the authenticity of binary distributions.  Ensuring that no flaws are introduced during the build process greatly improves software security and control. This work has already made significant progress in Debian, and they are making their tools available for Fedora, Ubuntu, OpenWrt and other distributions as well. CII's $200,000 grant will allow Levsen and Bobbio to meaningfully advance their Debian work and collaborate more closely with other distributions.  The Fuzzing Project - The fuzzing software testing technique is a powerful mechanism to identify security problems in software or computer systems. Security researcher Hanno Bu00f6ck spearheads The Fuzzing Project, coordinating fuzzing efforts for open source software. Many vulnerabilities in well-known software, including several GnuPG and OpenSSL bugs reported lately, were found by Bu00f6ck's effort. He will receive $60,000 from CII to continue his work finding and reporting fuzzer-related issues in open source software. He works on improving and documenting the tools and methods to automatically find large quantities of bugs in software.   False-Positive-Free Testing - Pascal Cuoq, chief scientist and co-founder of TrustInSoft, a company that uses the Frama-C platform to detect software flaws, will receive a grant to build an open source TIS Interpreter, including all the extensions necessary to support the false-positive-free operation on OpenSSL. This work is based on TIS Analyzer, a commercial software analysis tool based on Frama-C, the extensible open-source framework for source code analysis. One issue impairing TIS Analyzer's widespread adoption is that it occasionally produces false positives: it can report security errors that are actually false alarms. Cuoq's new project supports a new flavor of TIS Analyzer named "TIS Interpreter" and a methodology that detects bugs with no false positives. Thus, any bug that is reported actually needs to be fixed. American Fuzzy Lop fuzzer will be used to automatically generate new test cases for OpenSSL from which TIS interpreter can detect bugs.  TIS Interpreter, expected to be released as open source software in early 2016, will use existing test cases to detect bugs with no false positives, which saves developers' time. CII is investing $192,000 in this work, which combines existing technologies to test this new technique on OpenSSL, so that, if successful, it can be extended to other open source software to help developers better identify potential bugs and improve security.   In addition to announcing support for the three projects, The Linux Foundation announced that Emily Ratliff is joining The Linux Foundation as senior director of infrastructure security for CII.  Ratliff is a Linux, system and cloud security expert with more than 20 years' experience, most recently working as a security engineer for AMD and spent nearly 15 years at IBM.  "While each project we're announcing funding for today is quite different, each is critical to our global computing infrastructure and cybersecurity,u201d said Jim Zemlin, Executive Director of The Linux Foundation. u201cThese new grants, combined with the stellar addition of Emily, mean CII is well-positioned to address critical infrastructure vulnerabilities in the months and years ahead. Emily's extensive Linux security experience and standards involvement will be a major asset to CII's work as we move beyond point-fixes toward more holistic solutions for open source security."  The multi-million dollar initiative was originally funded by a roster of tech giants, including Amazon Web Services, Cisco, Dell, Facebook, Fujitsu, Google, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, NetApp, Rackspace and VMware. The members represent a wide swath of the industry, from cloud hosting and services, hardware, software, storage, Internet services, and networking. Bloomberg, Adobe, Huawei, HP and salesforce.com have also showed support for the initiative. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599f46cefc42d78dc611c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Third-Party Bundling Made IBM Products Most Vulnerable: Study", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/third-party-bundling-made-ibm-products-most-vulnerable-study", "Date" : "December 10, 2014", "Article" : "n Reports Shows Many IBM Products Vulnerable Due to Bundling Vulnerability intelligence company Secunia has released a new report summarizing security vulnerabilities disclosed between August and October 2014.  This year, the total number of vulnerabilities increased by 40% compared to 2013. According to Secunia's report released Monday, a total of 1,841 flaws were uncovered over the three-month period in the top 20 most vulnerable products.  The largest number of security bugs disclosed was in Google Chrome: 64 in August, 17 in September, and 162 in October.  In August, numerous vulnerabilities were also reported in Oracle Solaris (58), EMC RSA Archer GRC (41), and various IBM products. In September, Apple's OS X topped the chart with 59 flaws, followed by VMware Center Server (43), Internet Explorer (38), VMware vSphere Update Manager (37), and Adobe Flash Player (24). In October, Chrome was followed by the Avant Browser (159) and iTunes (83). In the three-month period covered in the report, the vendor with the most vulnerable products was IBM. This is largely due to the fact that the company's products are bundled with third-party software such as Java and OpenSSL. "That these programs are bundled within the individual IBM product means that every single time a vulnerability is discovered and a patch released for e.g. Java, the corresponding IBM products needs to be updated, too. First by IBM, and then by all IBM customers," Secunia noted in its report. "Anyone running IBM products knows that in the weeks and months following an Oracle Patch Day, they need to get busy patching their IBM applications. All in all, a very time consuming process." IBM did not respond to a request for comment. The report also highlights the relation between publicity and patches. Shortly after the existence of the OpenSSL bug known as Heartbleed came to light, 100 vendors released patches for 600 affected products within 40 days. Two months later, another series of OpenSSL flaws were disclosed and vendors once again rushed to patch their solutions. In the following weeks, other OpenSSL vulnerabilities were found to plague a total of 200 products, but security updates were not released for many of them. "When Take 3 happened, the media had lost interest u2013 and with the hype gone, less than 20 vendors took the time to disclose and patch some 50 products. 100 days in, the number of affected products is at 75. Consequently, not only are there products that are vulnerable and unpatched because of 'OpenSSL Take 3', but they are also undisclosed. And that is really bad!" Secunia noted. Secunia's Vulnerability Update report is available online. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599f86cefc42d78dc6124" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Updates Address a Dozen Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-updates-address-dozen-vulnerabilities", "Date" : "March 19, 2015", "Article" : "OpenSSL 1.0.2a, 1.0.1m, 1.0.0r, and 0.9.8zf have been released. The latest updates include fixes for several bugs and security issues. After OpenSSL announced earlier this week that the most serious flaw fixed with these updates has been classified as u201chigh severity,u201d some suggested that it might be a vulnerability as critical as Heartbleed, but it doesnu2019t seem to be the case. The only high severity issue fixed in the latest versions of OpenSSL is a denial-of-service (DoS) vulnerability (CVE-2015-0291). The flaw was reported on February 26 by David Ramos of Stanford University and it affects OpenSSL 1.0.2. u201cIf a client connects to an OpenSSL 1.0.2 server and renegotiates with an invalid signature algorithms extension a NULL pointer dereference will occur. This can be exploited in a DoS attack against the server,u201d the OpenSSL Project team wrote in an advisory. OpenSSL 1.0.2a, 1.0.1m, 1.0.0r, and 0.9.8zf include fixes for a total of eight moderate severity vulnerabilities. One of the weaknesses is caused by a corrupted pointer in the recently introduced u201cmultiblocku201d performance feature (CVE-2015-0290). In some cases, the vulnerability can be leveraged for a DoS attack, OpenSSL said. The list of moderate severity vulnerabilities also includes two segmentation faults related to the DTLSv1_listen (CVE-2015-0207) and ASN1_TYPE_cmp (CVE-2015-0286) functions. A different segmentation fault the can be exploited in a DoS attack is related to signature verification routines (CVE-2015-0208). A DoS condition can also be caused by sending a specially crafted SSLv2 CLIENT-MASTER-KEY message to servers that support SSLv2 and enable export cipher suites (CVE-2015-0293), or by sending an empty ClientKeyExchange message if client auth and the DHE ciphersuite are used (CVE-2015-1787). The remaining moderate severity issues have been described as an ASN.1 structure reuse memory corruption (CVE-2015-0287) and PKCS7 NULL pointer dereferences (CVE-2015-0289). These flaws donu2019t affect OpenSSL clients and servers. The low severity vulnerabilities are a NULL pointer dereference related to the X509_to_X509_REQ function, a use-after-free following a d2i_ECPrivatekey function error, and an issue that allowed an OpenSSL 1.0.2 client to complete a handshake with an unseeded pseudorandom number generator (PRNG). OpenSSL 1.0.1, 1.0.0 and 0.9.8 are affected by a vulnerability related to processing base64 encoded data (CVE-2015-0292). An attacker can use maliciously crafted base64 data to trigger a segmentation fault or memory corruption. This issue was fixed in earlier versions of OpenSSL, but this is the first time it has been mentioned in an advisory. Initially, the OpenSSL Project rated the recently disclosed FREAK bug as u201clow severityu201d because it thought that not many servers supported the weak RSA export-grade ciphersuite. After seeing that RSA export ciphersuite support is common, OpenSSL has decided to change the severity rating to u201chigh.u201d Itu2019s worth noting that OpenSSL fixed the FREAK flaw back in early January. u201cAfter Heartbleed, POODLE and other recent OpenSSL bugs, organizations should have a good handle on what systems in their environments need to be patched and what needs to be done to patch them. If you are still trying to get a handle on where your network is vulnerable to OpenSSL issues and what needs to be done to remediate that issue, you should probably take a close look at your processes and see where you can streamline those efforts,u201d Cris Thomas, strategist at Tenable Network Security, told SecurityWeek. u201cBy now a new critical vulnerability in OpenSSL should not be a fire drill for CISOs and IT security teams; there have been several previous instances to practice and refine your technique, and by now it should be a simple matter of following the procedures you developed based on the previous instances,u201d Thomas added. Trey Ford, global security strategist at Rapid7, noted that the fixes should be applied as soon as possible on Internet-exposed systems because attack code will be quickly built by reverse engineering the published patches. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a066cefc42d78dc6145" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "VENOM Bug Poison to Virtual Environments, Not Bigger Than Heartbleed: Experts", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/venom-bug-poison-virtual-environments-not-bigger-heartbleed-experts", "Date" : "May 13, 2015", "Article" : "Perhaps it is not surprising that any time a critical new bug appears comparisons to other notorious bugs come soon after. In this case, the publication of the VENOM vulnerability affecting virtual environments touched off immediate comparisons to Heartbleed, a serious security bug disclosed last year affecting the OpenSSL cryptographic library.u00a0But while both bugs have gotten plenty of attention, a number of experts told SecurityWeeku00a0VENOM may not be as poisonous. "VENOM is comparable to Heartbleed, but five years from now, looking back, we will likely not remember it as causing quite as much heartburn," said Mike Lloyd, CTO at security firm RedSeal Networks. The name VENOM stands for 'Virtualized Environment Neglected Operations Manipulation'. The bug resides in QEMU's virtual Floppy Disk Controller, and is used in numerous virtualization platforms including Xen and the native QEMU client.u00a0The vulnerabilityu00a0was discovered by a researcher at CrowdStrike. According to the security firm, the vulnerability has existed since 2004, and no evidence has been observed of it being exploited in the wild. VENOM is agnostic of both the host and guest operating system. In order to exploit it, an attacker - or their malware -would need administrative or root privileges in the guest operating system. "Heartbleed enabled anyone to directly access information stored in server memory, including certificate key material, passwords- all kinds of stuff," explained Trey Ford, global security strategist at Rapid7. "VENOM can only bite a system if the attacker already has a root level account on the system, and, thankfully, there is a rapidly shrinking population of vulnerable systems." "With Heartbleed, the attack was trivial u2013 your mom, dad, nieces and nephews, anyone -- could use a browser plugin to test websites," he added. "VENOM exploitation requires the perpetrator to have access to a vulnerable virtual machine, with a root account, and exploit code your relatives probably donu2019t have access to." According to CrowdStrike, the VMware, Microsoft Hyper-V and Bochs hypervisors are not affected by the issue, and Amazon released a statement today saying that it poses no threat to Amazon Web Services instances or customer data. Symantec's Security Response Team noted that the OpenSSL library is one of the most commonly used implementations of the SSL and TLS cryptographic protocols, which is why Heartbleed affected a large number of websites, applications, servers, network appliances and virtual private networks. VENOM however only impacts virtualization systems that use QEMU's Floppy Disk Controller. While it is locally serious and could allow an attacker to do much more than Heartbleed, the number of vulnerable systems is much smaller, Symantec noted. "When compared to Heartbleed, I do not see it on the same level," said Adam Kujawa, head of the malware intelligence team at Malwarebytes. "Heartbleed was so bad because it was a vulnerability discovered in one of the most commonly used applications for servers and had been for many years. VENOM doesnu2019t come close to that kind of potential damage since the target group is so small and every minute it is shrinking as more systems get patched -- not to mention the fact that target identification, the development of an exploit and weaponization development for the exploit would be a very time-consuming process. The bad guys couldn't push out something to attack this vulnerability in less than a few weeks, at the very least, so that gives developers and heads of IT plenty of time to fix the problems."u00a0 Nevertheless, experts are advising affected parties to patch immediately.u00a0 "For users of external public cloud services, the responsibility to apply the remediation falls to the service provider, and so customers are likely to burn up the phone lines calling in to make sure this has been done promptly," said Lloyd. "For organizations running private cloud infrastructure, the responsibility falls to internal IT, as a part of routine patch management. Businesses can expect some brief disruptions as this patch is applied; if your business uses the affected virtualization systems, the patch should be treated with very high priority, and is well worth a brief service interruption in almost all cases." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a066cefc42d78dc6146" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Cisco Fixes DoS Vulnerability Affecting Carrier Routing Systems", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/cisco-fixes-dos-vulnerability-affecting-carrier-routing-systems", "Date" : "June 15, 2015", "Article" : "Cisco has released updates for its IOS XR network operating system to address a vulnerability that can be exploited to cause a denial-of-service (DoS) condition on CRS-3 Carrier Routing Systems. According to an advisory published by Cisco, a medium severity vulnerability (CVE-2015-0769) exists in the IPv6 processing code of IOS XR Software installed on CRS-3 Carrier Routing Systems. An attacker can cause the line card to reload by sending specially crafted IPv6 packets to the vulnerable device. A malicious actor can cause an extended DoS condition by exploiting the vulnerability repeatedly, Cisco said. The company has pointed out that the flaw affects Cisco CRS-3 Carrier Routing System devices only if they are running a vulnerable release of IOS XR, if they have CRS-MSC-140G, CRS-FP140 or CRS-LSP line cards installed on the chassis, and if the line card is configured for IPv6. The vulnerability affects the following Cisco IOS XR releases: 4.0.1, 4.0.2, 4.0.3, 4.0.4,u00a04.1.0, 4.1.1, 4.1.2, and 4.2.0. Cisco has released software maintenance updates (SMUs) to address the issue in versions 4.1.0, 4.1.1, 4.1.2, and 4.2.0. Customers who use 4.0.x versions are advised to upgrade their installations to a currently supported release. The company says the security bug was discovered by its own team, and there is no evidence that it has been exploited for malicious purposes. OpenSSL released updates on Thursday to address several DoS vulnerabilities. Cisco says itu2019s currently trying to determine which of its products are affected by the OpenSSL security holes, and their impact on each product. The OpenSSL packages plagued by the vulnerabilities are incorporated in a large number of Cisco products, including collaboration and social media, client software, network and content security devices, network management and provisioning solutions, routing and switching products, voice and unified communications devices, unified computing solutions, hosted services, and video, streaming, telepresence, and transcoding devices. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a0b6cefc42d78dc6155" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "VMware Fixes Several Vulnerabilities in vSphere Platform", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/vmware-fixes-several-vulnerabilities-vsphere-platform", "Date" : "December 05, 2014", "Article" : "VMware has released software updates to address a series of vulnerabilities affecting the company's popular vSphere virtualization platform.  The list of security bugs includes a cross-site scripting (XSS) flaw, a certificate validation issue, and various vulnerabilities affecting third-party libraries. The impacted products are VMware vCenter Server Appliance 5.1 prior to Update 3, VMware vCenter Server 5.5 prior to Update 2, VMware vCenter Server 5.1 prior to Update 3, VMware vCenter Server 5.0 prior to Update 3c, and VMware ESXi 5.1 without the ESXi510-201412101-SG patch, VMware revealed in an advisory published on Thursday. The XSS vulnerability (CVE-2014-3797) was discovered and reported by Tanya Secker of Trustwave SpiderLabs. The security hole affects the vCenter Server Appliance (vCSA) and it can be exploited if the attacker can trick the victim into clicking on a maliciously crafted link while logged in to the application. The Google Security Team informed VMware of a certificate validation issue (CVE-2014-8371) affecting vCenter Server.u00a0  "vCenter Server does not properly validate the presented certificate when establishing a connection to a CIM Server residing on an ESXi host. This may allow for a Man-in-the-middle attack against the CIM service," VMware said in its advisory. The libxml2 (parsing XML documents), Curl (transferring data with URL syntax), and Python packages used in VMware ESXi have been updated to address multiple security issues. These bugs have been assigned the following CVE identifiers: CVE-2013-2877, CVE-2014-0191, CVE-2014-0015, CVE-2014-0138, CVE-2013-1752 and CVE-2013-4238. VMware vCenter Server 5.1 Update 3 also addresses Oracle's Java SE vulnerabilities affecting vCenter Server and vCenter Update Manager 5.1. The company has released patches for many of the vulnerable products, but in some cases the patch is still pending.  VMware advises customers to apply the updates as soon as possible, though many organizations often fail to update their installations even when highly critical vulnerabilities are involved.  Older versions of VMware products are affected by the OpenSSL bug dubbed Heartbleed. The company started releasing patches for Heartbleed in April, shortly after the existence of the vulnerability came to light. However, virtualization management firm CloudPhysics reported in late July that many organizations had still not secured their installations.u00a0   In late September, VMware started releasing updates for several of its solutions to address the GNU Bash vulnerability known as ShellShock.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a0e6cefc42d78dc615c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patches Logjam Bug, DoS Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-patches-logjam-bug-dos-vulnerabilities", "Date" : "June 11, 2015", "Article" : "OpenSSL versions 1.0.2b, 1.0.1n, 1.0.0s and 0.9.8zg have been released. The latest versions of the open-source toolkit for SSL/TLS address several moderate and low severity security bugs. An advisory published by developers shows that the recently disclosed vulnerability known as u201cLogjamu201d has been patched in OpenSSL 1.0.2b and 1.0.1n. The vulnerability (CVE-2015-4000) is similar to FREAK and it can be exploited through man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks to downgrade TLS connections to 512-bit export-grade cryptography. OpenSSL has addressed the weakness by rejecting handshakes with Diffie-Hellman parameters shorter than 768 bits. The limit will be increased to 1024 bits in a future release of OpenSSL. The latest updates also address a moderate severity denial-of-service (DoS) vulnerability caused by the way ECParameters structures are handled (CVE-2015-1788). u201cWhen processing an ECParameters structure OpenSSL enters an infinite loop if the curve specified is over a specially malformed binary polynomial field,u201d OpenSSL said in its advisory. u201cThis can be used to perform denial of service against any system which processes public keys, certificate requests or certificates. This includes TLS clients and TLS servers with client authentication enabled.u201d The vulnerability affects OpenSSL 1.0.2, 1.0.1, 1.0.0d and below, and 0.9.8r and below. Recent 1.0.0 and 0.9.8 versions are not impacted. Another moderate severity DoS flaw is an out-of-bounds read in the X509_cmp_time function (CVE-2015-1789). u201cX509_cmp_time does not properly check the length of the ASN1_TIME string and can read a few bytes out of bounds. In addition, X509_cmp_time accepts an arbitrary number of fractional seconds in the time string,u201d OpenSSL said. The vulnerability affects all current versions of OpenSSL and it can be exploited with the aid of malformed certificates and certificate revocation lists (CRLs) against applications that verify certificates or CRLs. The security hole was reported by Robert Swieckiu00a0of Google and independently by Hanno Bu00f6ck. Michal Zalewski of Google discovered that applications designed to decrypt PKCS#7 data or parse PKCS#7 structures from untrusted sources can be caused to crash because missing inner EncryptedContent is not handled correctly (CVE-2015-1790). OpenSSL says the vulnerability does not affect clients and servers. Another DoS bug that affects all current versions of OpenSSL has been assigned the CVE identifier CVE-2015-1792. u201cWhen verifying a signedData message the CMS code can enter an infinite loopu00a0if presented with an unknown hash function OID,u201d reads OpenSSLu2019s advisory. u201cThis can be used to perform denial of service against any system which verifies signedData messages using the CMS code.u201d Finally, developers addressed a low severity bug that allows a remote, unauthenticated attacker to cause a DoS condition (CVE-2015-1791). According to an advisory published by Cisco for this issue, the vulnerability exists because session data is not handled properly.  u201cThe vulnerability exists within the ssl3_get_new_session_ticket() function because the affected software fails to properly handle session data. The affected library improperly handles NewSessionTicket data when received by a multi-threaded client,u201d Cisco said. u201cAn unauthenticated, remote attacker could exploit the vulnerability by transmitting crafted session requests to the targeted system. When processing such data, the library attempts to reuse a previous ticket and a race condition can occur which may lead to a double free memory error of the ticket data.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a0f6cefc42d78dc615e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Busting the Ghost Security Vulnerability Haunting Linux Systems", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/busting-ghost-security-vulnerability-haunting-linux-systems", "Date" : "January 28, 2015", "Article" : "A bug is haunting Linux systems. The Ghost vulnerabilityu00a0recently revealed by researchers at Qualys has triggered comparisons to Shellshock, but some experts say that both the impact and how organizations should approach patching it is different. "Applying a patch to bash and rolling out a newer version to me seems a lot easier," said Jon Passki, lead security researcher at Coverity.u00a0"None of its dependencies are touched, so the fix can be very specific. As a sysadmin or someone in security operations, I'd rather have Shellshock than Ghost." Ghost is a buffer overflow issue in the Linux glibc library. If the bug is exploited, it could enable an attacker to take control of a targeted system. "Glibc (libc) is a core library for many packages and for the host operating system," Passki continued. "For example, Ubuntu's kernel is compiled using a specific version of libc. So you get into dependency tango between the kernel, its version of libc, and then other applications installed on the operating system. The short of it is upgrading from one version of glibc to another isn't possible until the main operating system is upgraded. Then you get into third party packages. They often write and compile against certain versions of libc. Again, they're in the same boat. For example, maybe there's a bug in libc that prevents their application from working, so they'll compile to an older version." "Libc might backport the fix because of all the aforementioned issues," he added. "That would still require, in some cases, applications to be recompiled with the now patched backported libcu2026So there will be a lag in when those new versions are available." Patching glibc is a little different than a library like OpenSSL due to kernel and build tool dependencies, said HD Moore, chief research officer at Rapid7. "To work around this, vendors often standardize on one version of glibc and then backport the security patches as needed," he said. "This gethostbyname() issue was the result of an issue being identified and patched, but not marked as a security issue, and therefore not backported to older glibc versions. From a vendor perspective, patching glibc is a lot of work, as patches have to be backported for each version used by each supported release. From a user perspective, the standard update process applies - however in this case a reboot is also a good idea." According to Qualys, the first vulnerable version of the GNU C Library affected by this is glibc-2.2, which was released on Nov. 10, 2000. There are a number of factors that mitigate the bug however; for example, the issue was actually fixed on May 21, 2013, between the releases of glibc-2.17 and glibc-2.18. However, most stable and long-term-support distributions were left exposed including Debian 7 (wheezy), Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 and 7, CentOS 6 and 7 and Ubuntu 12.04. The release of a fix in 2013 means that many newer Linux operating systems were never at risk, mitigating the threat, blogged Trend Micro's Pawan Kinger.u00a0 "Secondly, not all applications are at equal risk," Kinger added. "Exploitation is very difficult as an attacker only has a small amount of initial exploit code that can be used: 4 or 8 bytes (depending on whether the system is a 32- or 64-bit system). Additional code must be written to an address referenced by a pointer which the attacker can modify. As a result,u00a0many apps are not at risk. So far, we are not aware of any potential web attack vectors, which reduces the attack surface considerably."   The GHOST.c utility included in the original advisory can quickly tell you whether or not the local glibc has been patched, said Moore.  "Another way to tell would be to consult a list of patched package versions, such as the oneu00a0published by Matasano," Moore added. "If the system has not been rebooted in the last few days, that is also a great indication that the patch may not have been applied, or if it was applied, it was not yet effective due to the need for a full restart of all affected services. In practice, system uptime is going to beu00a0a good indicator to determine which machines may have been skipped." According to Passki, Linux deployments using Exim as a mail server should be immediately upgraded, as should Linux deployments with untrusted users on them. There are vulnerable setuid / setguid utilities that can lead to local account escalation, he added. Otherwise, this issue should be treated as any other high priority patch by an enterprise. "This leaves the statically linked library residue," he said. "That's a harder problem. Organizations should know already what proprietary software they're running. If not, this would be step one. Then, for each of these products, especially products that connect to the network, they should ask the vendor if they're statically linked to glibc, if so what version, and if it's a vulnerable version, what's the vendor's remediation time frame." "Now, not all vulnerable software will be or can be exploited, so the sky is not falling," he added. "Some vendors software is deployed in a low risk way, even if it's vulnerable. So the patching and remediation of these should mirror the risk tolerance of an organizationu2026Regardless, vendors should be able to communicate the risk to the enterprise organizations affected." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a126cefc42d78dc6165" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Privilege Escalation, DoS Vulnerabilities Fixed in VMware Products", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/privilege-escalation-dos-vulnerabilities-fixed-vmware-solutions", "Date" : "January 28, 2015", "Article" : "VMware has released security updates that address several vulnerabilities in vCenter Server, ESXi, Workstation, Player, and Fusion. VMware ESXi, Workstation, Player and Fusion are plagued by an arbitrary file write flaw that can be exploited for privilege escalation on the host, VMware said in an advisory published on Tuesday. The security hole (CVE-2014-8370) was reported by Shanon Olsson through Japanu2019s national Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT).  u201cThe vulnerability does not allow for privilege escalation from the guest Operating Systemu00a0to the host or vice-versa. This means that host memory can not be manipulated from the Guest Operating System,u201d VMware noted. The second issue fixed by the company is a denial-of-service (DoS) vulnerability affecting Workstation, Player, and Fusion. The flaw (CVE-2015-1043), reported by Peter Kamensky from Digital Security, is caused by an input validation issue in the Host Guest File System (HGFS). A different input validation vulnerability (CVE-2015-1044) that could lead to a DoS on the host affects ESXi, Workstation, and Player. ESXi and Workstation running on Linux are only partially impacted. The bug was reported by Dmitry Yudin through HPu2019s Zero Day Initiative (ZDI). VMware has also updated the OpenSSL library in vCenter Server and ESXi to versions 1.0.1j and 0.9.8zc. The update addresses several vulnerabilities fixed by OpenSSL in mid-October 2014, including the SSL 3.0 flaw known as POODLE. Finally, the company has updated the libxml2 library in ESXi to version 2.7.6-17 in order to address a DoS flaw (CVE-2014-3660) disclosed last year in October. u201cA denial of service flaw was found in libxml2, a library providing support to read, modify and write XML and HTML files. A remote attacker could provide a specially crafted XML file that, when processed by an application using libxml2, would lead to excessive CPU consumption (denial of service) based on excessive entity substitutions, even if entity substitution was disabled, which is the parser default behavior,u201d reads a description of the vulnerability from RedHat. The vulnerabilities fixed by VMware affect Workstation 10.x prior to version 10.0.5, Player 6.x prior to version 6.0.5, Fusion 7.x prior to version 7.0.1 and Fusion 6.x prior to version 6.0.5, and vCenter Server 5.5 prior to Update 2d. For ESXi 5.0, 5.1 and 5.5, the company released patches. On Tuesday, VMware also updated an advisory released in early December. The advisory covers several vulnerabilities affecting the vSphere virtualization platform. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a126cefc42d78dc6166" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "FREAK Attacks Made Cheaper by Repeated RSA Keys: Researchers", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/freak-attacks-made-cheaper-repeated-rsa-keys-researchers", "Date" : "March 17, 2015", "Article" : "The number of servers affected by the recently disclosed FREAK bug has decreased considerably over the past couple of weeks, but researchers have determined that a large number of potential targets are vulnerable, and attacks could be much cheaper and easier to pull off than initially believed. The FREAK (Factoring attack on RSA-EXPORT Keys) vulnerability exists because many SSL/TLS servers still support weak, export-grade RSA ciphers. An attacker who can intercept the connection can force the client to use the weak cipher and decrypt encrypted communications. The flaw affects popular cryptographic software libraries such as OpenSSL, BoringSSL, LibReSSL, Microsoftu2019s Secure Channel (Schannel), and Appleu2019s Secure Transport. The bug has been patched in these libraries, but according to researchers at the Royal Holloway University of London, there are still over 2 million vulnerable servers. On March 3, when the vulnerability was disclosed, experts noted that 26% of all HTTPS servers were vulnerable. Last week, Royal Holloway researchers conducted a scan using a modified version of the zmap tool to determine how many servers still support export-grade ciphersuites. Of the 22,730,626 hosts they scanned, 2,215,504 offered export-grade 512-bit RSA keys, which represents 9.7% of the total. As cryptography experts noted after the FREAK flaw was uncovered, an attacker can normally recover the private key needed to decrypt communications in roughly 7.5 hours using Amazonu2019s EC2 service and it would cost them $104. However, researchers have now determined that an attack can be much cheaper and less time-consuming because many of the identified keys are duplicates. u201cWe observed 664,336 duplicate moduli in the set of 2,215,504 512-bit moduli obtained from our scanning. One single modulus was found 28,394 times, two further moduli arose more than 1,000 times each and a total of 1,176 moduli were seen 100 times or more each,u201d researchers explained in their paper. Apparently, the key that shows up over 28,000 times corresponds to a router with an SSL VPN module. An attacker can crack the key for $100 and then use it to target all of the affected devices, which would result in a cost of only 0.3 cents per host. As for the remaining 1,551,168 unique 512-bit RSA keys, researchers managed to factor 90 of them, corresponding to close to 300 hosts, in just 167 seconds on eight 3.3Ghz Xeon cores by using a program developed in 2012. u201cThe computation took less than 3 minutes on an 8-core system, saving the $9,000 that a cloud computation would have cost if each modulus had been attacked directly. We consider this to be a good return on investment for a Friday afternoon's work,u201d researchers said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a1a6cefc42d78dc617a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Malware and DDoS Were the Most Common Attack Types in 2014: IBM", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/malware-and-ddos-were-most-common-attack-types-2014-ibm", "Date" : "March 16, 2015", "Article" : "IBM today released the 2015 IBM X-Force Threat Intelligence Quarterly, a report that details the security incidents, financial malware trends, risky Android apps, and vulnerability disclosures seen in 2014. According to IBM, malware and distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks took the lead last year in terms of volume. SQL injection attacks are still efficient when it comes to extracting valuable information from Web servers and applications, but point-of-sale (PoS) malware has also helped cybercriminals steal a lot of records in the last year. In 2014, the most commonly attacked industries were computer services (28.7%), retail (13%), government (10.7%), education (8%), and financial markets (7.3%). A majority of the security incidents observed by the company were in the United States, which is likely a result of the countryu2019s stringent data breach disclosure laws, IBM said. The company estimates that over 1 billion data records were leaked last year. As far as vulnerabilities are concerned, X-Force has catalogued over 9,200 flaws affecting more than 2,600 unique vendors. This is a new record and it represents a 9.8% increase compared to the previous year. Itu2019s worth noting that the X-Force database includes bugs that donu2019t have a CVE identifier. The total number of vulnerabilities could have been below 8,000 for the first time since 2011. However, CERT/CC researches developed automated testing tools designed to verify if Android applications are vulnerable to man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks. Over 1,000 apps have been confirmed to be vulnerable and a different CVE identifier has been assigned to each of them, despite the fact that itu2019s the same fundamental vulnerability. CERT/CC is still tracking more than 20,000 potentially vulnerable applications and once the analysis is complete, the total number of vulnerabilities found in 2014 could increase to over 30,000, IBM said. Many of the security holes disclosed last year affected foundational systems, such as operating systems, content management systems (CMS), and widely-used open source libraries. Flaws have been identified in Windows, OS X, Linux, WordPress, Joomla, Drupal, the UNIX bash shell (ShellShock), OpenSSL (Heartbleed), and SSL (POODLE). The report has also pointed out that 2014 was a year in which numerous so-called u201cdesigner vulnerabilitiesu201d were disclosed. These flaws are not only dangerous, but they also come with a cleverly branded name and logo. u201cThese designer vulns appeared within long-held foundational frameworks used by the majority of websites, and they continued throughout 2014, garnering catchy name after catchy name: Heartbleed, Shellshock, POODLE and, into 2015, Ghost and FREAK,u201d Leslie Horacek, IBM X-Force Threat Response Manager, wrote in a blog post. The complete 2015 IBM X-Force Threat Intelligence Quarterly is available online. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a1a6cefc42d78dc617b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Fixes Tens of Vulnerabilities in OS X, iOS, Safari, Apple TV", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/apple-fixes-tens-vulnerabilities-os-x-ios-safari-apple-tv", "Date" : "January 28, 2015", "Article" : "Security updates were released by Apple on Tuesday for OS X, iOS, Safari and Apple TV. The updates address a large number of vulnerabilities identified by the companyu2019s internal security team and external researchers. Apple has updated OS X Yosemite to version 10.10.2. The latest release of the Mac operating system fixes a total of 54 security issues affecting components such as AFP Server, bash, Bluetooth, CoreGraphics, the CommerceKit framework, FontParser, the Intel graphics driver, IOHIDFamily, IOUSBFamily, the kernel. libnetcore, LoginWindow, OpenSSL, the sandbox, SceneKit, Spotlight, sysmond, and UserAccountUpdater. OS X 10.10.2 also addresses the vulnerabilities disclosed recently by Ian Beer of the Google Zero Project, the Thunderstrike flaw reported by Trammell Hudson, and a Gatekeeper bypass bug identified by Hernan Ochoa of Amplia Security.  Following recent reports about a couple of Adobe Flash Player zero-days that have been exploited in the wild, Apple has decided to disable all Flash Player plugins prior to versions 16.0.0.296 and 13.0.0.264. These and several other WebKit flaws have also been fixed by Apple in iOS 8.1.3. Other vulnerabilities patched in the mobile operating systems affect components such as AppleFileConduit, CoreGraphics, dyld, FontParser, Foundation, IOHIDFamily, iTunes, the kernel, libnetcore, MobileInstallation, and Springboard. As far as Safari is concerned, the Web browser has been updated to versions 8.0.3, 7.1.3 and 6.2.3. The updates address a total of four memory corruption vulnerabilities affecting the WebKit. Some of the fixed security issues have been used by the PanguTeam and the TaiGJailbreak Team in their iPhone/iPad jailbreaks. In Apple TV 7.0.3, the company has addressed a total of 29 vulnerabilities, but none of them are specific to this particular product; they are the same flaws that have been fixed in iOS and, in some cases, OS X. The list of external researchers credited by the company for discovering the flaws includes Felipe Andres Manzano of the Binamuse VRT, Gaurav Baruah, Stefan Esser, Rennie deGraaf of iSEC Partners, cloudfuzzer, FireEyeu2019s Hui Xue, Song Jin and Tao Wei, Jordan Milne, [emailu00a0protected], Roberto Paleari and Aristide Fattori of Emaze Networks, Craig Young of Tripwire VERT, Sten Petersen, Steven Michaud of Mozilla, Mike Myers of Digital Operatives, Vitaliy Toropov, Googleu2019s Fermin J. Serna and Jose Duart, David J Peacock, and Alex Radocea of CrowdStrike. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a3a6cefc42d78dc61d2" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Fixes FREAK Vulnerability With iOS, OS X Updates", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/apple-fixes-freak-vulnerability-ios-os-x-updates", "Date" : "March 10, 2015", "Article" : "Apple Patches Several Flaws in iOS, OS X, Apple TV and Xcode Apple has released updates to address several security flaws, including the recently disclosed FREAK vulnerability that can be leveraged to decrypt SSL/TLS connections. iPhone, iPad and iPod users can protect themselves against FREAK attacks by updating iOS to version 8.2. Apple has also released security updates for OS X Mountain Lion v10.8.5, OS X Mavericks v10.9.5, and OS X Yosemite v10.10.2 to address the bug (CVE-2015-1067). FREAK (Factoring attack on RSA-EXPORT Keys) can be exploited to downgrade encrypted SSL/TLS sessions and force clients to use a weaker, export-grade RSA cipher. The bug affects several popular cryptographic software libraries, including OpenSSL, BoringSSL, LibReSSL, Microsoftu2019s Secure Channel (Schannel), and Appleu2019s Secure Transport. u201cSecure Transport accepted short ephemeral RSA keys, usually used only in export-strength RSA cipher suites, on connections using full-strength RSA cipher suites. This issue, also known as FREAK, only affected connections to servers which support export-strength RSA cipher suites, and was addressed by removing support for ephemeral RSA keys,u201d Apple noted in an advisory. In addition to the FREAK vulnerability, two other issues have been addressed in both iOS and OS X. One of the security holes is caused by buffer overflows in data handling during the iCloud Keychain recovery process (CVE-2015-1065). The flaw, discovered by Andrey Belenko of NowSecure, allows an attacker with a privileged position on the network to execute arbitrary code, Apple said. A different arbitrary code execution flaw affecting both iOS and OS X was identified by Ian Beer of Googleu2019s Project Zero. The researcher found a type confusion bug in IOSurface's handling of serialized objects (CVE-2015-1061). iOS 8.2 also addresses a vulnerability in CoreTelephony (CVE-2015-1063). The flaw, discovered by Roman Digerberg, can be exploited to cause devices to restart by sending them a Flash (Class 0) SMS message. The latest update to Appleu2019s mobile operating system also fixes a MobileStorageMounter security hole used by the TaiG Team in its jailbreaks (CVE-2015-1062), and a weakness that can be leveraged by an attacker with physical access to a device to view the home screen even if the device is not activated (CVE-2015-1064). In OS X, Apple has fixed an IOAcceleratorFamily bug (CVE-2015-1066) that allows a malicious application to execute arbitrary code with system privileges. The OS X Yosemite v10.10.2 update also resolves a kernel vulnerability (CVE-2014-4496) found by the TaiG Jailbreak Team. The FREAK vulnerability, the IOSurface type confusion bug, and the MobileStorageMounter issue were also addressed in Apple TV with the release of version 7.1. Apple released Xcode 6.2 on Monday. The latest version of the integrated development environment (IDE) resolves several vulnerabilities in Apache Subversion, and a critical Git vulnerability disclosed in December. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a446cefc42d78dc61ed" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "FREAK Vulnerability Affects All Windows Versions: Microsoft", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/freak-vulnerability-affects-all-windows-versions-microsoft", "Date" : "March 06, 2015", "Article" : "Initially, experts believed that the recently disclosed SSL/TLS vulnerability dubbed u201cFREAKu201d doesnu2019t affect Windows, but Microsoft confirmed on Thursday that all supported versions of its operating system are impacted. According to Microsoft, the vulnerability exists in Secure Channel (Schannel), a security package that implements the SSL/TLS authentication protocols. An an attacker can exploit the flaw to downgrade an encrypted SSL/TLS session and force client systems to use a weaker, export-grade RSA cipher. Through a man-in-the-middle (MitM) attack, a malicious actor could intercept and decrypt encrypted traffic. However, Microsoft says there is no evidence to suggest that the vulnerability has been exploited in the wild against its customers. u201cUpon completion of this investigation, Microsoft will take the appropriate action to help protect customers. This may include providing a security update through our monthly release process or providing an out-of-cycle security update, depending on customer needs,u201d the company said in an advisory. In the meantime, users are advised to disable RSA key exchange ciphers using the Group Policy Object Editor available in Windows Vista and later. This workaround is efficient because an attack can only be launched if the server supports export-grade cipher suites. FREAK (Factoring attack on RSA-EXPORT Keys) affects several popular cryptographic software libraries, including OpenSSL versions prior to 1.0.1k (CVE-2015-0204), BoringSSL versions released before November 10, 2014, LibReSSL versions prior to 2.1.2, and Appleu2019s Secure Transport. Web browsers such as Internet Explorer, Chrome on OS X and Android, Safari on OS X and iOS, the stock Android browser, BlackBerry Browser, and Opera on OS X and Linux are affected. Chrome for OS X has already been patched by Google, and Apple is expected to release patches for Safari next week. FREAKattack.com, which monitors the status of the vulnerability, reported that more than a third of HTTPS servers with browser-trusted certificates were at risk as of March 3. The list of popular websites affected by the issue as of March 5 included the ones of American Express, 4Shared, GroupOn, MIT, and TalkTalk. Export-grade encryption was introduced in 1990 when the United States government required organizations that distributed cryptography systems outside the country to deliberately weaken the strength of encryption keys. Today, an attacker could easily recover the private key needed to decrypt communications. According to cryptography expert Matthew Green, the process can be completed in roughly 7.5 hours using Amazonu2019s EC2 service and it would only cost $104. Experts advise Web server administrators to disable support for export-grade suits to mitigate the vulnerability. Servers can be tested using the SSL FREAK Check tool or Qualysu2019 SSL Server Test. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a4c6cefc42d78dc6201" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "High Severity Vulnerability Found in PolarSSL Library", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/high-severity-vulnerability-found-polarssl-library", "Date" : "January 21, 2015", "Article" : "A vulnerability that can be exploited for denial-of-service (DoS) attacks and possibly even for remote code execution has been uncovered in the cryptographic library PolarSSL. PolarSSL is used in several major projects, including OpenVPN, OpenVPN-NL (a version of OpenVPN made by Fox-IT for the Dutch government), PowerDNS, the Hiawatha and Monkey HTTP Server web servers, and various commercial products. In November 2014, PolarSSL became part of the semiconductor and software design company ARM. The high severity vulnerability (CVE-2015-1182) was discovered by PolarSSL developers during an internal audit, but it was also identified independently by Netherlands-based Certified Secure. The flaw affects PolarSSL 1.0 through 1.3.9 in certain configurations. Servers that donu2019t ask for client certificates are not impacted, PolarSSL said. u201cDuring the parsing of a ASN.1 sequence, a pointer in the linked list of asn1_sequence is not initialized by asn1_get_sequence_of(). In case an error occurs during parsing of the list, a situation is created where the uninitialized pointer is passed to polarssl_free(),u201d PolarSSL wrote in an advisory published on Monday. u201cThis sequence can be triggered when a PolarSSL entity is parsing a certificate. So practically this means clients when receiving a certificate from the server or servers in case they are actively asking for a client certificate,u201d the advisory continues. Users are advised to apply a patch developed by PolarSSL for version 1.3.9 or wait for the upcoming release, which will include the fix. According to Certified Secure, the most common attack scenario is one in which the attacker exploits the server by presenting it a specially crafted X.509 certificate. This results in a DoS state, but it can also lead to remote code execution. The vulnerability has been confirmed to impact OpenVPN-NL 2.3.5-nl2 and prior. OpenVPN-NL 2.3.5-nl3 was released on Monday to address the PolarSSL vulnerability. OpenVPN Connect for Android version 1.1.14 and earlier, and OpenVPN Connect for iOS version 1.0.5 and earlier are also vulnerable. However, Certified Secure has pointed out that in order to exploit a client, the attacker needs to perform a successful man-in-the-middle (MitM) attack or gain control of the server. OpenVPN might be vulnerable in certain situations, but this hasnu2019t been confirmed. PowerDNS is not affected. Cryptographic libraries took center stage last year after the discovery of Heartbleed, a critical vulnerability affecting OpenSSL. In October, the SSL protocol itself came into the spotlight when researchers discovered a design flaw in SSL 3.0 (POODLE) that can be exploited to extract information from encrypted communications. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a4e6cefc42d78dc620b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "FREAK Vulnerability Exposes SSL/TLS Security Hole", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/freak-vulnerability-exposes-ssltls-security-hole", "Date" : "March 04, 2015", "Article" : "Researchers have released details of a vulnerability (CVE-2015-0204) that makes it possible for hackers to crack HTTPS-protected traffic by forcing vulnerable clients to downgrade to weaker crypto. The vulnerability has been dubbed 'FREAK' for Factoring RSA Export Keys. It was discovered by a group of researchers from Microsoft Research and the French Institute for Research in Computer Science and Automation, who found it was possible to make web browsers use encryption intentionally weakened in order to comply with U.S. government regulations in effect during the 1990s that banned American companies from exporting strong encryption abroad. "Support for these weak algorithms has remained in many implementations such as OpenSSL, even though they are typically disabled by default; however, we discovered that several implementations incorrectly allow the message sequence of export ciphersuites to be used even if a non-export ciphersuite was negotiated," the researchers wrote. "Thus, if a server is willing to negotiate an export ciphersuite, a man-in-the-middle may trick a browser (which normally doesn't allow it) to use a weak export key. By design, export RSA moduli must be less than 512 bits long; hence, they can be factored in less than 12 hours for $50 on Amazon EC2." "If you run a web server, you should disable support for any export suites," the site advises. "However, instead of simply excluding RSA export cipher suites, we encourage administrators to disable support for all known insecure ciphers (e.g., there are export cipher suites protocols beyond RSA) and enable forward secrecy. Mozilla hasu00a0published a guideu00a0andu00a0SSL Configuration Generator, which will generate known good configurations for common servers. You can check whether your site using the SSL Labs'u00a0SSL Server Test." According to Reuters, Apple is preparing an update to address the issue that will be released next week.  A Google spokesperson told SecurityWeeku00a0that the company encourages all websites to disable support for export certificates, and that Android's connections to most websites - including Google sites and others without export certificates - are not subject to this vulnerability. The spokesperson also said that Google has already developed a patch and provided it to its partners.u00a0 "This is a very interesting problem that shows how we mustn't be complacent about these older technologies, even though we think they are not going to be used," said Ivan Ristic, Qualysu2019u00a0director of application security research. "This attack seems fairly easy, conceptually u2013 they [the researchers] cite 'about 7.5 hours for $104 in EC2 time' to break a key. Then they need to find a vulnerable client." "In practice, I don't think this is a terribly big issue, but only because you have to have many ducks in a row," he said. "That is: 1) find a vulnerable server that offers export cipher suites; 2) it should reuse a key for a longish time; 3) break key; 4) find vulnerable client; 5) attack via MITM (easy to do on a local network or wifi; not so easy otherwise). There's a good lesson here, and that's don't enable technologies that you don't want to see used, even if you don't really think they will be used." "I would not freak out too much as must vendors are quickly patching this bug," added Greg Martin, CTO of ThreatStream. "With that said, it's yet another reminder that there are still many serious bugs in core software, like Shellshock and now FREAK which are still dormant in many of the key software components powering the Internet.u00a0Vendors have a responsibility to proactively test not just their own code but third party code and open source components for such vulnerabilities to protect their users." *Update: The list on Freakattack.com has been updated.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a506cefc42d78dc620d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Antivirus Software Weakens HTTPS Security: Researcher", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/antivirus-software-has-negative-impact-https-security-researcher", "Date" : "April 28, 2015", "Article" : "German journalist and researcher Hanno Bu00f6ck has analyzed three popular antivirus products and determined that each one of them lowers security when they intercept HTTPS traffic. Bu00f6ck was featured in several news articles in February after the world learned that Lenovo had pre-installed a piece of adware known as Superfish on laptops. Superfish came into the spotlight when experts discovered that it broke the security of HTTPS connections in order to inject ads into web pages. After the Superfish incident came to light, Bu00f6ck revealed that Privdog, a tool promoted by Comodo and designed to replace ads with ones from trusted sources, was u201cworse than Superfish.u201d Now, the expert has analyzed the impact of antivirus products on HTTPS security. Security solutions are designed to intercept HTTPS traffic in order to see if it contains any malicious elements. In order to do this, they conduct a man-in-the-middle (MitM) attack by replacing the SSL certificate with a root certificate installed on the useru2019s system. All of the three solutions analyzed by Bu00f6ck -- Avast, ESET and Kaspersky Lab -- are capable of intercepting HTTPS traffic. By default, Avast intercepts all encrypted traffic, Kaspersky intercepts traffic to certain important websites (e.g. banking sites), and ESET doesnu2019t intercept any traffic unless the user enables this option. Following reports of TLS vulnerabilities such as BEAST, Lucky 13, and FREAK, organizations, particularly browser vendors, have started paying more attention to HTTPS security. However, many products, including antiviruses, still expose users to attacks due to the improper handling of TLS connections. According to Bu00f6ck, all of the security products he tested break Public Key Pinning Extension for HTTP (HPKP), a security feature designed to prevent MitM attacks leveraging forged certificates by instructing the web client to associate a cryptographic key with a certain web server. u201cBrowsers made a compromise when introducing HPKP. They won't enable the feature for manually installed certificates. The reason for that is simple (although I don't like it): If they hadn't done that they would've broken all TLS interception software like these antivirus applications. But the applications could do the HPKP checking themselves. They just don't do it,u201d the expert explained in a blog post. The researcher reported that Kasperskyu2019s product is vulnerable to FREAK attacks, in which an attacker can force clients to use weaker, export-grade RSA encryption. This can be problematic considering that Kaspersky intercepts HTTPS traffic by default for important websites, the expert said. u201cI also found a number of other issues. ESET doesn't support TLS 1.2 and therefore uses a less secure encryption algorithm. Avast and ESET don't support OCSP stapling. Kaspersky enables the insecure TLS compression feature that will make a user vulnerable to the CRIME attack,u201d Bu00f6ck reported. u201cBoth Avast and Kaspersky accept nonsensical parameters for Diffie Hellman key exchanges with a size of 8 bit. Avast is especially interesting because it bundles the Google Chrome browser. It installs a browser with advanced HTTPS features and lowers its security right away.u201d The expert also pointed out that none of the security products he tested intercept traffic when Extended Validation (EV) certificates are used, most likely because it would cause browsers not to display the green bar in the address line. Antivirus companies often advise users to check for the presence of the green bar and the padlock icon next to a siteu2019s URL to ensure that a website is legitimate, so causing the security symbol not to be displayed would probably cause concern. u201cThe message the antivirus companies are sending seems clear: If you want to deliver malware from a web page you should buy an Extended Validation certificate,u201d Bu00f6ck said. The researcher noted that while modern web browsers handle TLS connections properly, the use of these antivirus applications actually lowers HTTPS security. u201cI think these technologies are a misguided approach. The problem is not that they make mistakes in implementing these technologies, I think the idea is wrong from the start. Man in the Middle used to be a description of an attack technique,u201d the researcher said. u201cIt seems strange that it turned into something people consider a legitimate security technology. Filtering should happen on the endpoint or not at all. Browsers do a lot these days to make your HTTPS connections more secure. Please don't mess with that.u201d ESET representatives said the company is aware of the issues presented by the researcher. u201cWe are aware of this issue and we've prepared an update, which will be released soon, to ensure that our users can enjoy the web securely,u201d stated Juraj Malcho, Chief Research Officer, Core Research and Development, ESET. Kaspersky is also working on a patch to mitigate the FREAK vulnerability, but the company believes itu2019s unlikely that its customers will be targeted in such attacks. "Kaspersky Lab is aware of this issue but it is important to note that in order to exploit the SSL/TSL encryption protocol vulnerability (known as FREAK) it is required to employ a Man-in-the-Middle attack, which is not always easy to implement. In order to succeed, both the addressed server and the client have to support the technology that allows it to lower the level of encryption strength,u201d the company told SecurityWeek. u201cOn account of this, it is very unlikely that Kaspersky Lab customers could become targeted by such an attack, a view supported by freakattack.com which shows that the share of vulnerable web-sites is rapidly decreasing and now is down to approximately 11.8%.u201d u201cHowever, in order to further reduce the possibility, Kaspersky Lab is working on a patch that closes the vulnerability by using the latest encryption protocols. The relevant update for Kaspersky Internet Security for Windows is scheduled to be delivered automatically before the end of May,u201d Kaspersky added. Avast provided a detailed explanation on how it handles HTTPS traffic interception and its plans for addressing some of the issues highlighted by Bu00f6ck. u201cToday, it is easy to host an HTTPS site with malware, so that security providers who take security risks seriously must also scan and inspect HTTPS connections. The pure fact that a connection is encrypted with HTTPS doesn't mean much any longer,u201d Lukas Rypacek, Program Manager at Avast Software, told SecurityWeek.u00a0 u201cThe Avast Web Shield scans HTTPS sites for malicious files. To detect malicious files on HTTPS sites, Avast must remove the SSL certificate and add its self-generated certificate. Our certificates are added into the root certificate store in Windows and in major browsers,u201d Rypacek explained. u201cBy scanning HTTPS traffic, we can protect our users against threats coming over HTTPS traffic that otherwise could not be detected.u201d Avast advises users who donu2019t want their antivirus to scan HTTPS traffic to disable the u201cEnable HTTPS scanningu201d feature in the settings menu under Active Protection -> Web Shield. u201cWe are using the OpenSSL library 1.0.2 and therefore are not vulnerable to the FREAK attack. So if a user has an older browser version but uses Avast, he will be protected from the FREAK attack,u201d noted Rypacek. u201cWe donu2019t support OCSP stapling at the moment, but do provide other methods for checking revoked certificates, including CRL and OCSP. Moreover, we will release OCSP stapling support with our next program update. Also, we are currently investigating how to add more features like the Public Key Pinning Extension for HTTP, and we are investigating the point regarding the Diffie Hellman parameters.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a5f6cefc42d78dc6234" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenBSD Downplays PRNG Vulnerability in LibreSSL", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openbsd-downplays-prng-vulnerability-libressl", "Date" : "July 16, 2014", "Article" : "LibreSSL, the open-source implementation of the SSL/TLS protocol forked from OpenSSL, is unsafe on Linux due to a flaw in the pseudorandom number generator (PRNG), a researcher said this week. However, the OpenBSD Project, which develops LibreSSL, believes the issue has been overblown.  According to Andrew Ayer, founder of secure backup service Opsmate, the PRNG in LibreSSL is less safe than the one in OpenSSL. The expert developed a test program which he linked to both OpenSSL and LibreSSL. In each case, he made two different calls to the RAND_bytes method, but in the case of LibreSSL, the same data was retuned both times, which according to Ayer, is "a catastrophic failure of the PRNG."  Representatives of the OpenBSD Project have confirmed that it is a real issue, but they believe it's far from being a "catastrophe," arguing that the test code which demonstrates the problem is "very much unlike real server code."  "Real software just isn't written like the test code, so it's very difficult to find a realistic situation where PID wrap would be an issue, more so to find a way that it would be realistically exploitable. So saying this is 'unsafe' on Linux, while technically correct, is a bit of a stretch. A 'catastrophe' - well, that's pretty far out there, especially when compared to the recent OpenSSL issues," OpenBSD developer Bob Beck told SecurityWeek.  Ayer admits that the program he created might be unrealistic, but he points out that "attackers often find extremely creative ways to manufacture scenarios favorable for attacks, even when those scenarios are unlikely to occur under normal circumstances."  On Wednesday, the OpenBSD Project released LibreSSL 2.0.2 portable to patch the vulnerability. OpenBSD founder Theo De Raadt told SecurityWeek that the bug has been fixed by adding an additional mechanism to detect process rollover.  "We're happy to have issues like this found - we expect to have small issues like this crop up, we want the code out there so they can be found and we can fix them, and in this case we already have," Beck said. "The LibreSSL-portable releases are still being handed out as trials, precisely to get reports like this and then fix them," De Raadt explained.  LibreSSL has been in the works since April, shortly after the existence of the OpenSSL vulnerability known as Heartbleed came to light. Over 90,000 lines of code were removed from OpenSSL in the first week, including unused code and support for older operating systems. The first release of LibreSSL portable, version 2.0.0, was made available on July 11, when the OpenBSD Project urged the community to start using it and provide feedback.   In June, Google announced its intention to fork OpenSSL to create its own security library, dubbed BoringSSL. At the time, Google and OpenBSD agreed to collaborate. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a616cefc42d78dc623a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Oracle Patches 113 Vulnerabilities, Including 20 in Java", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/oracle-patches-113-vulnerabilities-including-20-java", "Date" : "July 16, 2014", "Article" : "Oracle has addressed a total of 113 security vulnerabilities across its product base with the release of its Critical Patch Update (CPU) for July 2014. The CPU includes fixes for 20 flaws affecting Java SE, all of which can be remotely exploited without authentication. The vulnerabilities impact Java SE subcomponents such as Swing, Serviceability, Deployment, Security, Libraries, JavaFX, Hotspot and JMX. Two of the bugs are in Java SE's JRockit component. The list of affected versions includes Java SE 6u75, Java SE 7u60, Java SE 8u5, but it's worth noting that not all of these variants are plagued by each of the security holes.  "Most of the vulnerabilities are remotely exploitable without authentication, and CVSS scores of 10 and 9.3 indicate that they can be readily exploited, and lead to full compromise. Which means that keystroke loggers, ebanking trojans, etc, will soon follow," Daniel Wesemann, a security researcher with the SANS Institute, said in a blog post. "After the past three years of repeated gaping holes in Java, we hope that by now you have found a way to remove Java from your computers entirely, or to at least no longer run the Java plugin within the web browser.u00a0Otherwise, it is back to the hamster wheel, to yet again re-test all your applications that still require Java, to check for the inevitable incompatibilities with this latest release, and then to expedite the roll-out. This is definitely a patch that you don't want to skip or delay." Despite recent rumors that security patches for Java 7 will no longer work on Windows XP, Oracle clarified last week that this is untrue. Windows XP users will continue to get automatic updates at least until April 2015, when the end of public updates is scheduled for JDK 7. "The important point here is that we can no longer provide complete guarantees for Java on Windows XP, since the OS is no longer being updated by Microsoft," said Henrik Stahl, the vice president of product management at Oracle's Java Platform Group. In addition to the Java vulnerabilities, Oracle has also fixed 5 security issues in Oracle Database Server, 29 in Oracle Fusion Middleware, 7 in Oracle Hyperion, 1 in Oracle Enterprise Manager Grid Control, 5 in Oracle E-Business Suite, 3 in the Oracle Supply Chain Products Suite, 5 in Oracle PeopleSoft Products, 6 in Oracle Siebel CRM, 1 in Oracle Communications Applications,u00a0 3 in Oracle Retail Applications, 3 in the Oracle and Sun Systems Products Suite, 15 in Oracle Virtualization, and 10 in Oracle MySQL. One of the updates for MySQL Enterprise Server 5.6 includes a fix for the OpenSSL bug dubbed "Heartbleed." The list of individuals and organizations that have reported the vulnerabilities addressed with the July 2014 CPU includes Alon Friedman,u00a0 Rohan Stelling of BAE Systems Detica, Andrea Micalizzi, Ilja van Sprundel of IOActive, Borked of the Google Security Team, CERT/CC, Cihan Oncu, David Litchfield of Datacom TSS,u00a0 Peter Kamensky of ERPScan, Florian Weimer of Red Hat, Jeroen Frijters, John Leitch, Larry W. Cashdollar, Toby Clarke of Gotham Digital Science, Matt Bergin of KoreLogic Disclosures, Michael Miller of Integrigy, Rafal Wojtczuk of Bromium, Sayan Malakshinov of PSBank, Serguei Mourachov and Yash Kadakia of Security Brigade. "As a reminder, Critical Patch Update fixes are intended to address significant security vulnerabilities in Oracle products and also include code fixes that are prerequisites for the security fixes. As a result, Oracle recommends that this Critical Patch Update be applied as soon as possible by customers using the affected products," Eric Maurice, Oracle's director of software security assurance, wrote in a blog post.u00a0 u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a766cefc42d78dc626c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Fixes Numerous Vulnerabilities With Release of Mac OS X 10.9.5", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/apple-fixes-numerous-vulnerabilities-release-mac-os-x-1095", "Date" : "September 19, 2014", "Article" : "Apple has released updates for several of its products and, in addition to new features and functionality fixes, the company has also addressed several security issues that expose users to cyberattacks. With the release of Mac OS X Mavericks 10.9.5 on Sept. 18, Apple has addressed more than 40 vulnerabilities affecting components such as PHP, Bluetooth, the CoreGraphics framework, the Intel graphics driver, the Foundation framework, IOKit, IOHIDFamily, IOAcceleratorFamily, the kernel, OpenSSL, QT Media Foundation and Ruby. The flaws can lead to arbitrary code execution, information disclosure, application termination, privilege elevation, and bypass of kernel address space layout randomization. Andrea Micalizzi (rgod), s3tm3m, Fernando Munoz, Tom Gallagher, Paul Bates, Ian Beer of Google Project Zero, @PanguTeam, George Gal of VSR, and Felipe Andres Manzano of Binamuse VRT have been credited for finding and reporting the vulnerabilities. In August, Apple informed application developers that they would have to re-sign their apps if they don't want them to be blocked by the company's Gatekeeper anti-malware feature. Apple suggested at the time that applications with version 1 signatures would be blocked after the release of OS X Mavericks 10.9.5. However, a developer has reported that apps signed with version 1 signatures still work. "This was a classic case of Apple communicating far too poorly about a situation that purported to affect potentially every Mac developer. Many of us spent way too much time trying to decode and make sense of the situation when Apple could have done so for us through careful clarification of the specific code signatures that needed updating, how they could be reliably verified, and what the actual consequences of inaction would be," Daniel Jalkut of Indie Stack explained in a blog post. Many of the security holes patched in OS X Mavericks are the same as the ones addressed by Apple with the release of iOS 8, in which the company also fixed some "backdoors" brought to light earlier this year by a forensics specialist. In addition to OS X Mavericks, Apple released security updates for OS X Server, the Safari Web browser, Apple TV and the Xcode development platform. In Safari, for example, the company addressed several WebKit vulnerabilities and an issue that could have been exploited by an attacker with a privileged position on the network to intercept user credentials. With the release of OS X Server versions 2.2.3 and 3.2.1, various CoreCollaboration issues have been addressed. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a776cefc42d78dc626e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "FireEye Fixes Security Vulnerabilities in FireEye Operating System (FEOS)", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/fireeye-fixes-security-vulnerabilities-fireeye-operating-system-feos", "Date" : "July 09, 2014", "Article" : "FireEye Operating System (FEOS) updates that address a series of security vulnerabilities have been released for several products, FireEye announced on Tuesday. The updates fix flaws in FEOS NX, EX, AX, FX and CM. The company advises customers to upgrade their installations to NX 7.1.1.222846, EX 7.1.1.222846, AX 7.1.0.223064, FX 7.1.0.224362 and CM 7.1.1.222846, versions that have been released on June 12, except for FX, which was made available on June 30. FireEye points out the fact that the 7.1.2 special version of CM does not contain all the fixes, which is why users should upgrade to version 7.2.0 or above. These new versions address a total of five OpenSSL vulnerabilities that were disclosed by the OpenSSL Project on June 5. The most critical of these security holes (CVE-2014-0224) could have been exploited to decrypt traffic through man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks. FireEye believes that its products are only affected by this particular flaw, but fixes have been implemented for the other issues as a precaution. Silent Signal has been credited for reporting an "important" severity post-authentication command injection vulnerability in the command-line interface of the FEOS. "An attacker could issue a special sequence of commands that would allow them to execute arbitrary shell commands in the underlying operating system of the appliance. To take advantage of this vulnerability, an attacker must be able to communicate with the SSH management interface of the appliance AND have valid login credentials, or the attacker must have physical access to the console interfaces of the appliance," FireEye explained in its advisory. Other FEOS flaws patched by FireEye include command and SQL injections in the Web user interface, cross-site scripting (XSS), cross-site request forgery (CSRF), and file system read and write issues. The company says it has also updated insecure third-party libraries, made some adjustments to make sure processes are not executed with privileges that are higher than necessary, and ensured that some internal services are not unnecessarily exposed via TCP/IP. u00a0These problems were uncovered by an independent external vulnerability assessment company and they could have only been exploited by an attacker with access to the management interface.u00a0 There's no evidence that these bugs have been exploited in the wild, FireEye said. Except for the OpenSSL issues, no CVE identifiers have been assigned to the vulnerabilities. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a866cefc42d78dc6297" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Project Swats 8 Security Bugs", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-project-swats-8-security-bugs", "Date" : "January 08, 2015", "Article" : "Several patches have been released today to plug eight vulnerabilities in OpenSSL. The fixes are contained within OpenSSL 1.0.1k, 1.0.0p and 0.98zd. The most serious of the bugs are classified by the OpenSSL Project as 'moderate' and could be leveraged to launch denial-of-service attacks. The remaining six issues are ranked 'low'. The first of the moderate bugs mentioned in the advisory can be triggered by a specially-crafted DTLS message to cause a segmentation fault in OpenSSL due to a NULL pointer dereference. This issue affects all current OpenSSL versions (1.0.1, 1.0.0 and 0.9.8) and could lead to a denial-of-service attack, according to the advisory. The second moderate bug is a memory leak that can occur in the dtls1_buffer_record function under certain conditions. "In particular this could occur if an attacker sent repeated DTLS records with the same sequence number but for the next epoch," according to the advisory. "The memory leak could be exploited by an attacker in a Denial of Service attack through memory exhaustion." This bug impacts OpenSSL versions 1.0.1 and 1.0.0. Tod Beardsley, Rapid7's engineering manager, noted that while none of these issues reach "Heartbleed-levels of severity," system administrators should plan to upgrade their OpenSSL server instances in the coming days. "While we are still researching the implications of the eight issues announced today, the most severe vulnerabilities merely lead to a Denial of Service (DoS) condition on affected services usingu00a0OpenSSLu00a0through either segmentation fault and crashing (CVE-2014-3571) or memory exhaustion (CVE-2015-0206)," he said. "Therefore, in order to maintain reliable service,u00a0OpenSSLu00a0should be upgraded or replaced by SSL libraries not affected by these issues, such as LibreSSL." The other vulnerabilities are related to a number of issues, including one where the OpenSSL server accepts a DH client certificate without the certificate verify message. "This effectively allows a client to authenticate without the use of a private key," according to the advisory. "This only affects servers which trust a client certificate authority which issues certificates containing DH keys: these are extremely rare and hardly ever encountered." In another case, an OpenSSL client will accept a handshake using an ephemeral ECDH ciphersuite using an ECDSA certificate if the server key exchange message is omitted. In effect, this removes forward secrecy from the ciphersuite, the advisory notes. The full advisory can be read here.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a886cefc42d78dc629a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Security Vulnerabilities Fixed With Release of Python 2.7.8", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/security-vulnerabilities-fixed-release-python-278", "Date" : "July 03, 2014", "Article" : "Regression and security fixes are included in the latest version of the Python programing language released by the Python Software Foundation on July 1. The developers announced that the OpenSSL version bundled with the Windows installer has been updated to version 1.0.1h, which addresses the recently disclosed ChangeCipherSpec (CCS) injection vulnerability that could allow for a man-in-the-middle (MitM) attack against an encrypted connection. Another issue fixed with Python 2.7.8 refers to a possible overflow in the "buffer" type that could allow memory reading. The flaw was reported on June 24 and has been catalogued as a "release blocker," a priority assigned to bugs that "stop the release dead in its tracks." Additionally, a vulnerability in the CGIHTTPServer module has been patched with the latest release. The bug, rated as "critical",u00a0 can be exploited to execute arbitrary code on affected servers. "The CGIHTTPServer Python module does not properly handle URL-encoded path separators in URLs. This may enable attackers to disclose a CGI script's source code or execute arbitrary scripts in the server's document root," reads the bug report for the flaw. "CGIHTTPServer executes CGI cgies inside a folder specified at init. Its function for deciding what's inside the folder (to be executed) and what's outside (to be returned raw) is completely bust. If you urlencode the slashes you will confuse it enough to yield false negative/positive," explained Hacker News user FiloSottile. "This means that if you are using CGIHTTPServer, anyone can execute anything that the web server was supposed to print, or get the source of any CGI script." u00a0Additional details are available in the release notes and the complete change log. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a9d6cefc42d78dc62d0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Patches Vulnerabilities in OS X, iOS, Safari", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/apple-patches-vulnerabilities-os-x-ios-safari", "Date" : "April 09, 2015", "Article" : "Updates released by Apple on Wednesday address numerous vulnerabilities in Mac OS X, iOS, Safari and other products developed by the company. The OS X updates fix a total of 80 security issues affecting components such as the admin framework, Apache, ATS, CFNetwork, CoreAnimation, FontParser, hypervisor, ImageIO, IOHIDFamily, the kernel, LaunchServices, libnetcore, NTP, OpenSSL, PHP, QuickLook, SceneKit, UniformTypeIdentifiers, and WebKit. The patched vulnerabilities can be exploited for remote code execution, denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, data leakage, and bypassing security mechanisms. Three of the vulnerabilities were reported by the researcher known as lokihardt through HPu2019s Zero Day Initiative (ZDI). One of them is the remote code execution bug leveraged by the expert at the Pwn2Own 2015 hacking competition to break Safari. ZDI has published advisories for each of the flaws. One of the DoS bugs affecting the OS X kernel was detailed in a blog post on Wednesday by Kenton Varda of Sandstorm.io. The vulnerability allows an attacker to cause apps and network services, such as Chrome and Node.js, to go into infinite loops. The details of a NULL pointer vulnerability in the NVidia GeForce kernel driver shipped with OS X Yosemite were also disclosed. Yahoo researchers John Villamil and Frank Graziano discovered the flaw that allows a local attacker to execute arbitrary code with system privileges. With the release of iOS 8.3, Apple has addressed a total of 58 flaws, including ones that affect OS X as well. The list of impacted components includes AppleKeyStore, audio drivers, the backup system, iWork Viewer, Bluetooth keyboards, the lock screen, sandbox profiles, telephony, and Safari. The backup system bug, which allows an attacker to access restricted areas of the file system, has been leveraged by TaiG for its jailbreaks. The Safari web browser has been updated to versions 8.0.5, 7.1.5, and 6.2.5. The latest releases address a total of ten issues, many of which impact usersu2019 privacy. Updates have also been released for Xcode and Apple TV. The vulnerabilities fixed by Apple with the release of Apple TV 7.2 can be exploited by malicious actors for arbitrary code execution, DoS attacks, privilege escalation, traffic redirection, security bypasses, and information leakage. The Xcode integrated development environment has been updated to version 6.3. Two security flaws have been addressed in this release. Some of the vulnerabilities fixed with the latest updates were identified by Appleu2019s own security team, but many of them were discovered and reported by independent researchers and experts working for companies such as Google, Alibaba, IBM, IOActive, Kaspersky, Zimperium, and FireEye. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359aa16cefc42d78dc62db" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Easily Exploitable NTP Vulnerabilities Put ICS Operators at Risk", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/easily-exploitable-ntp-vulnerabilities-put-ics-operators-risk", "Date" : "December 22, 2014", "Article" : "Remotely Exploitable NTP Vulnerabilities Put Industrial and Critical Infrastructure Systems at Risk  Security researchers Neel Mehta and Stephen Roettger of Google's Security Team recently discovered vulnerabilities in the Network Time Protocol (NTP), a service that helps synchronize system times over a network, including some flaws that could enable an attacker to take control of or crash a system.  According to the disclosures, several vulnerabilities exist, including buffer overflow vulnerabilities (CVE-2014-9295)u00a0that could allow a remote attacker to send a specially crafted request packet that could crash the NTP daemon (ntpd) or execute arbitrary code with the privileges of the NTP user.  The biggest concern is that the vulnerabilities can be easily exploited remotely by a low skilled attacker with exploits that are already publicly available. Mehta, who also discovered the infamous Heartbleed vulnerability, and Roettger coordinated the disclosure of NTP vulnerabilities with CERT/CC, which published a vulnerability note on Friday. NTP has released an update that addresses several, but not all of the newly-discovered vulnerabilities in the Network Time Protocol daemon. The two most serious issues and four less serious issues were fixed with the release of ntp-4.2.8, which was made available on Dec. 18. The NTP Project said that it expects to fix two less significant vulnerabilities within the next month. Products using NTPu00a0Version 4 releases prior to NTP-4.2.8 are affected, and because the software is a widely used open source protocol, many products from technology vendors will be at risk.  Industrial Control Systems at Risk   The DHS' Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT) also issued an advisory to warn operators of industrial control systems to ensure they are protected against the dangerous flaws.  u201cAs NTP is widely used within operational Industrial Control Systems deployments, NCCIC/ICS-CERT is providing this information for US Critical Infrastructure asset owners and operators for awareness and to identify mitigations for affected devices,u201d ICS-CERT noted it its advisory.  u201cNTP is indeed a vital component of ICS and SCADA networks,u201d Bill Rios, an ICS security expert and founder of security startup Laconicly, told SecurityWeek. u201cTiming is really important and synchronizing components in SCADA networks is extremely important.u201d  Impact to individual organizations depends on many factors that are unique to each organization, ICS-CERT said, and recommends that organizations evaluate the impact of the vulnerabilities based on their operational environment, architecture, and product implementation. u201cI'm certain that many portions of our nations critical infrastructure depend of the integrity of timing services like NTP,u201d Rios said.  ICS-CERT strongly encourages Critical Infrastructure and Key Resources (CIKR) users to backup current operational ICS configurations, and thoroughly test the updated software for system compatibility on a test system before attempting deployment on operational systems.  NTP was one of the first open source projects selected to receive support from the Linux Foundationu2019s Core Infrastructure Initiative, an effort supported by a group of tech Industry heavyweights including Microsoft, Google, Intel, and Cisco to support and fund open source projects that make up critical elements of global information infrastructure.u00a0Formed primarily as the industry's response to the Heartbleed crisis, the OpenSSL library and NTP were the initiative's first projects to receive support.  The latest NTP releases can be found online from the NTP project website.u00a0 Red Hat released updates over the weekend to address the security issues in NTP packages used in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5, 6 and 7.u00a0 OpenBSD is not affected as it does not use ntp.org code. You can expect many other vendors to release updates in the days and weeks ahead to address these vulnerabilities in products that leverage NTP. *Headline revised " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359aa86cefc42d78dc62eb" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Lazy Remediation Leaves Most Global 2000 Firms Vulnerable After Heartbleed Flaw: Report", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/lazy-remediation-leaves-most-global-2000-firms-vulnerable-heartbleed-flaw-report", "Date" : "April 07, 2015", "Article" : " Heartbleed Anniversary: Many Organizations' External Servers Remain Vulnerable to Cyber Attacks  As we mark the one-year anniversary of disclosure of the now famous OpenSSL vulnerability (CVE-2014-0160)u00a0known as Heartbleed, security firm Venafi has released new research that shows how vulnerable Global 2000 organizations still are as a result of the flaw. According to Venafiu2019s research, as of April 2015, 74% of organizations have failed to completely remediate the risks around Heartlbeed despite ongoing warnings and guidance from software makers and security industry experts. That number remains nearly unchanged from the 76 percent reported by Venafi as being vulnerable as of August 2014.  To compile its report, Venafi Labs used its cloud-based digital certificate reputation service to evaluate 1,642 Global 2000 organizations with public-facing systems vulnerable to Heartbleed.   While many Global 2000 organizations have taken basic steps to remediate Heartbleed, most have not entirely remediated the vulnerability, Venafi says. In fact, the security firm found that 85 percent these organizations' external servers remain vulnerable due to the flaw.   u201cFrom the start, it was clear that Heartbleed was not just another u2018patch-itu2019 event,u201d the report said. u201cIt struck at the core of what creates online trust: SSL keys and certificates. If SSL keys and certificates could be compromised, websites could be spoofed for phishing attacks and encrypted communications decrypted via man-in-the-middle (MITM) tactics resulting in customer data loss and intellectual property theft.u201d   Venafi has discovered 580,000 hosts belonging to Global 2000 organizations that have not been completely remediated. These partially remediated hosts have been patched against Heartbleed, but the oganizations have either performed, as described by Gartner, u201clazyu201d remediation, failing to replace the private key, or failed to revoke the old certificate, Venafi said.  In 2014, immediately after the Heartbleed vulnerability broke, experts warned about the importance of patching software and replacing SSL keys and certificates.  The vulnerability is "catastrophicu201d for SSL and Internet security, Bruce Schneier, a well-known cryptologist and CTO of Resilient Systems, told SecurityWeek last April. u201cOn the scale of 1 to 10, this is an 11.u201d While it's perfectly possible there are even more serious flaws in TLS lurking undiscovered, Heartbleed is quite possibly the worst one to date. Calling Heartbleed a u201cginormous issueu201d would be a conservative assessment, Schneier said.   In 2014, cybercriminals used the keys and certificates that were captured via Heartbleed in the Community Health Systems breach when attackers accessed 4.5 million patient records. In April 2014, SecurityWeek reported on details of an attack that leveraged the Heartbleed vulnerability against the VPN appliance of a Mandiant customer to hijack multiple active user sessions. u00a0 "A year after Heartbleed revealed massive vulnerabilities in the foundation for global trust online, a major alarm needs to be sounded for this huge percentage of the world's largest and most valuable businesses who are still exposed to attacks like those executed against Community Health Systems," said Jeff Hudson, CEO, Venafi. "Given the danger that these vulnerabilities pose to their business, remediating risks and securing and protecting keys and certificates needs to be a top priority not only for the IT team alone, but for the CEO, BOD, and CISO." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359aac6cefc42d78dc62f3" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Develops OpenSSL Fork 'BoringSSL'", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-develops-openssl-fork-boringssl", "Date" : "June 24, 2014", "Article" : "Google is developing its own version of OpenSSL, tentatively dubbed BoringSSL. For years, Google has been building patches on OpenSSL for use in its products. But as Android, Chrome and other Google technologies have begun to need some subset of these patches, "things have grown very complex," blogged Google's Adam Langley, adding that while some of these patches have been accepted into the main OpenSSL repository, others have not. "The effort involved in keeping all these patches (and there are more than 70 at the moment) straight across multiple code bases is getting to be too much," he blogged. "So weu2019re switching models to one where we import changes from OpenSSL rather than rebasing on top of them. The result of thatu00a0will start to appear in the Chromium repository soon and, over time, we hope to use it in Android and internally too." "There are no guarantees of API or ABI stability with this code: we are not aiming to replace OpenSSL as an open-source project," he added. "We will still be sending them bug fixes when we find them and we will be importing changes from upstream. Also, we will still be funding the Core Infrastructure Initiative and the OpenBSD Foundation." Kyle Kennedy, CTO at STEALTHbits Technologies, said that he appreciated what Google is attempting to accomplish, but argued that the development of OpenSSL forks can present an even larger challenge. "OpenSSL needs to stay as one code base with a community of independent and enterprise backed developers working as one to allow the code base to be inspected as one code base," he said. "I personally would rather see Google and the Core Infrastructure Initiative follow the spirit behind the open-source community and lend their expertise to cleaning up the issues with OpenSSL u2013 make OpenSSL the real BoringSSL by fixing the original as opposed to creating yet another spin-off." Meanwhile, Theo de Raadt - founder of the OpenBSD Project, which is supporting the development of another OpenSSL fork known as LibReSSL - expressed excitement about the news. LibReSSL was forked from OpenSSL in April, after the Heartbleed vulnerability became public knowledge. "I suspect everyone working on LibReSSL is happy to hear the news about BoringSSL," he stated in a post on the OpenBSD mailing list. "Choice is good! Their priority is on safety, not on ABI compatibility.u00a0 Just like us.u00a0 Over time, I suspect Google's version will also become 'reduced API', since they require less legacy application support. That may give LibReSSL the opportunity to head in the same direction, if the applications are willing." According to Langley, Google will be able to import changes from LibReSSL, and they will be welcome to take changes from BoringSSL as well. "We have already relicensed some of our prior contributions to OpenSSL under an ISC license at their request and completely new code that we write will also be so licensed," he blogged. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359aae6cefc42d78dc62f9" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Heartbleed Vulnerability Persists as Patching Lags", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/heartbleed-vulnerability-persists-patching-lags", "Date" : "June 23, 2014", "Article" : "The Heartbleed vulnerability is still leaking the security out of the Internet. A scan of the Internet by Errata Security turned about 300,000 servers still vulnerable to the flaw. The number is half as many as the firm discovered when it did a similar scan in April, but is evidence nonetheless that many sites are falling behind when it comes to patching. "When the Heartbleed vulnerability was announced, we foundu00a0600k systems vulnerable," blogged security researcher Robert Graham. "A month later, we found that half had been patched, and onlyu00a0300k were vulnerable. Last night, now slightly over two months after Heartbleed, we scanned again, and found 300k (309,197) still vulnerable. This is done by simply scanning on port 443, I haven't check other ports." "This indicates people have stopped even trying to patch," he added. "We should see a slow decrease over the next decade as older systems are slowly replaced. Even a decade from now, though, I still expect to find thousands of systems, including critical ones, still vulnerable. I'll scan again next month, then at the 6 month mark, and then yearly after that to track the progress." As part of the scan, he found 1.5 million systems supporting the Heartbeat feature, with all but the 300,000 patched.u00a0 Heartbleed first made the news in April, when it was revealed that attackers could exploit improper input validation in the implementation of the TLS Heartbeat extension in OpenSSL. The vulnerability existed for more than two years before it was patched, and has been tied to a handful of attacks. "There will always be a long tail of ignored vulnerabilities and decommissioned systems left online," said Trey Ford, global security strategist at Rapid7. "I expect that we will still see systems vulnerable to Heartbleed on the Internet in five and evenu00a0ten years from now." CISOs and CIOs are should not report to their CEOs, board of directors or the public that they are safe from Heartbleed until they have replaced all their keys and certificates, said Kevin Bocek, vice president of security strategy and threat research at Venafi.u00a0 "From the start it was clear: Heartbleed was not just another patch-it vulnerability. It struck at the heart of what creates trust online: SSL keys and certificates," Bocek said. "Immediately after the Heartbleed vulnerability broke experts u2013 fromu00a0Bruce Schneieru00a0tou00a0Gartneru2019s Erik Heidtu00a0u2013 made it clear that to stop Heartbleed SSL keys and certifies must be replaced. Not reissued, but replaced. Meaning that new keys are generated, new certificates issued, and old certificates revoked." Most enterprises keep a close watch on their Internet-facing systems, Ford said. But while while they scan frequently for missing patches and deviations from expected configurations, they still find unexpected and vulnerable systems showing up on their perimeter.  "More interesting to me are the systems on the internal network - my bet is the vast majority of organizations have a very large number of systems that are still vulnerable to Heartbleed internally," he said.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359abd6cefc42d78dc6322" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Recovering from Heartbleed: The Hard Work Lies Ahead", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/recovering-heartbleed-hard-work-lies-ahead", "Date" : "April 28, 2014", "Article" : " The recently-disclosed Heartbleed vulnerability has forced many system administrators to promptly patch affected servers. That was just the easy part. The hard work lies ahead.  Much of the initial rush to fix the Heartbleed vulnerability focused on Web servers, but there are many other products that utilize OpenSSL, the affectedu00a0cryptographic libraryu00a0that was found to leak data 64kb at a time in response to attackersu00a0sending a specially crafted packet. Organizations have to identify all the affected systems, generate new public-private key pairs, request and issue new certificates signed by the new keys, and revoke the old certificates. While some organizations have revoked the old certificates for their public-facing Web sites, many have not, and progress is slow remediating other affected systems, experts said. The first question organizations have to grapple with is, "What's the size of the problem?" and that is not an easy question to answer, said Kevin Bocek, vice-president of security strategy and threat intelligence at Venafi. "OpenSSL is huge."  The vulnerability is "catastrophicu201d for SSL and Internet security, Bruce Schneier, a well-known cryptologist and CTO of Co3 Systems, told SecurityWeek earlier this month. u201cOn the scale of 1 to 10, this is an 11.u201d While it's perfectly possible there are even more serious flaws in TLS lurking undiscovered, Heartbleed is quite possibly the worst one to date. Calling Heartbleed a u201cginormous issueu201d would be a conservative assessment, Schneier said.u00a0 Various Windows and Android applications are at risk. Networking gear such as cable modems, routers, VPN gateways, and network-attached servers may be vulnerable, as are embedded systems such as heating and ventilation systems and consumer electronics. Add in the Internet of Things, such as smart TVs and thermostats, and it's clear just understanding the scope of the issue is a challenge.u00a0 It's tricky enough keeping up with regular firmware upgrades for many of these devices under normal circumstances. It's even more difficult when there is a rush to deal with everything, and many embedded systems were not designed with an upgrade path at all.  For vulnerable devices that can be updated, the to-do list sounds straightforward. Administrators have to patch the flaw, by either updating OpenSSL or installing new firmware. Next, new private-public keys have to be generated. Organizations have to assume the certificates and the private keys have been compromised because proving otherwise is nearly impossible, Bocek said.  The next step is to work closely with the certificate authority to issue new certificates signed with the re-generated private key. Administrators then install the certificate and validate it was deployed correctly. Finally, the old certificate needs to be revoked. Some CAs offer self-service tools or APIs to help facilitate the process. Even so, the whole process is time-consuming and cannot be easily automated, Bocek warned.  Key and certificate management is "not a user-friendly task to begin with," Bocek said.  It's not that organizations aren't taking the problem seriously. The issue lies in the fact that organizations frequently do not have a clear understanding of who is using which keys in what application, or even a complete list of all the certificates and keys deployed. In many cases, certificates are manually managed using labor-intensive and error-prone spreadsheets. Add in multiple administratorsu2014large enterprises can easily have hundreds of themu2014and it becomes difficult to coordinate their activities. It's fairly easy to see which systems have been patched, but the manual process makes it harder for CISOs to validate all certificates have been reissued, installed, and verified, especially when dealing with so many keys at once, Bocek said.  Netskope analyzed 4,500 enterprise cloud apps and initially determined 100 were vulnerable to Heartbleed. The number of vulnerable enterprise apps has dropped to 29, but note that Netskope's analysis looked only for patched servers. A Netskope spokesperson confirmed the cloud apps in this analysis still haven't reissued or revoked certificates.  According to analysis by researchers at FireEye, roughly 150 million downloads of Android apps contained OpenSSL libraries vulnerable to Heartbleed as of April 17. Patching is critical because it prevents future damage, but it's only the first step. The second step, to issue new certificates and revoke old ones, is as essential because it mitigates the risk from any keys that may have been stolen before the servers were patched.  "We will see how many actually do that," Bocek said.  In an analysis of top 10,000 global Websites, Distil Networks found that 84 percent have patched vulnerable systems, 9 percent re-issued certificates, and 15 percent did not. The status of the certificates for the remaining 76 percent was "inconclusive," the company said.  Internet research firm Netcraft provided a more definitive figure last week, reporting more than 80,000 certificates have already been revoked this month. However, Netcraft also said it knows of more than 500,000 servers running vulnerable versions of OpenSSL, which means a vast majority of the certificates remain at risk.  Netcraft estimated the cost of replacing compromised certificates with new ones at more than $100 million. The final price tag, however, may wind up being less as many CAs are allowing customers to reissue and revoke certificates for free. However, Netcraft also found that many organizations were just buying new certificates rather than re-issuing new certificates. u201cPerhaps in the haste of resolving the problem, this seemed the easiest approach, making Heartbleed a bonanza for certificate authorities,u201d Netcraft's Paul Mutton wrote last week.  It's vital that organizations revoke old certificates. Attackers can use the old certificates and the compromised keys to create Websites spoofing banking, e-commerce, and other sites. Browsers use certification revocation lists (CRL) maintained by certificate authorities and other organizations to determine a certificate's validity.  Netcraft found last week that some companiesu2014such as Yahoou2019s mobile log-in page, the U.S. Senate large file transfer system, and GeoTrustu2019s SSL Toolboxu2014had deployed new certificates but hadn't immediately revoked the old ones. Some of those certificates were telling browsers they were "good," according to the company.  If the old certificate remains valid, the browser cannot to differentiate between fake and real sites. "This can lead to all sorts of problems like increased phishing attacks, more elaborate social engineering tactics and rogue sites, to say the least," Robert Jeffries, a research analyst with the Solutionary Security Engineering Response Team, wrote in a blog post last week.  "Heartbleed is not a warning shot over the bow," Bocek said. "It hit the engine room. We need systems that can immediately replace broken trust to get the engine running again." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359ac76cefc42d78dc6336" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Issues Slew of Security Updates for OS X, iOS", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/apple-issues-slew-security-updates-os-x-ios", "Date" : "April 23, 2014", "Article" : "Apple customers may find themselves busy this week applying patches issued by the company across a number of products. In a series of updates, Apple released patches for iOS, OS X and the AirPort Base Station. With Security Update 2014-002, Apple fixes several issues for Mavericks (its latest OS X version), as well as vulnerabilities in Lion and Mountain Lion. Tucked in among the fixes is a critical vulnerability (CVE-2014-1295) that allows what Apple calls a "triple handshake attack." "In a 'triple handshake' attack, it was possible for an attacker to establish two connections which had the same encryption keys and handshake, insert the attacker's data in one connection, and renegotiate so that the connections may be forwarded to each other," according to the advisory. "To prevent attacks based on this scenario, Secure Transport was changed so that, by default, a renegotiation must present the same server certificate as was presented in the original connection." This issue does not affect Mac OS X 10.7 systems and earlier. However, it is present on iPhone 4 and later, iPod touch (5th generation) and later and iPad 2 and later. According to Apple, an attacker with a privileged network position who exploited this issue could capture data or change the operations performed in the sessions protected by SSL. Other important fixes include an issue affecting the CoreServicesUIAgent in OS X Mavericks 10.9.2. According to Apple, visiting a maliciously crafted website that exploits the issue may allow an attacker to execute malicious code. "A format string issue existed in the handling of URLs," the advisory explained. "This issue was addressed through additional validation of URLs. This issue does not affect systems prior to OS X Mavericks." Apple also issued fixes for several other vulnerabilities in iOS that affect WebKit, the IOKit kernel and the CFNetwork HTTPProtocol. The company also issued a fixu00a0for AirPort Extreme and AirPort Time Capsule base stations with 802.11ac related to the Heartbleed vulnerability. "An out-of-bounds read issue existed in the OpenSSL library when handling TLS heartbeat extension packets," according to Apple. "An attacker in a privileged network position could obtain information from process memory. This issue was addressed through additional bounds checking. Only AirPort Extreme and AirPort Time Capsule base stations with 802.11ac are affected, and only if they have Back to My Mac or Send Diagnostics enabled. Other AirPort base stations are not impacted by this issue." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359ac96cefc42d78dc633b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "CrowdStrike Releases Heartbleed Scanner", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/crowdstrike-releases-heartbleed-scanner", "Date" : "April 22, 2014", "Article" : "After details of the critical u201cHeartbleedu201d vulnerability in OpenSSL emerged earlier this month, there has been widespread concern among system administrators, network security teams, software developers and essentially anyone with any technical connection to the Internet.   In short, the Heartbleed vulnerability allows attackers to repeatedly access 64K blocks of memory by sending a specially crafted packet to a server running a vulnerable version of OpenSSL.u00a0 In response to significant concern, CrowdStrike has released a free tool aimed at helping organizations detect the presence of systems (such as web servers, VPNs, secure FTP servers, databases, routers, phones etc.) on their networks that are vulnerable to the OpenSSL Heartbleed vulnerability. u201cWe realized that there was a largely unmet demand for an easy to use UI tool capable of also scanning the internal networks and non-HTTPS services for this vulnerability since this problem is so much bigger than just external websites,u201d Dmitri Alperovitch, Co-Founder & CTO of CrowdStrike wrote in a blog post.u00a0  Developed by CrowdStrikeu2019s Robin Keir, and released as a free tool available to anyone, CrowdStrike Heartbleed Scanner shows a list of vulnerable servers and outputs the contents of the 64kb of memory that a vulnerable server returns back to the heartbeat SSL request.   The scanner runs on both 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Windows XP or later and can be downloaded here.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359acb6cefc42d78dc6342" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Oracle Issues Heartbleed Updates", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/oracle-issues-heartbleed-updates", "Date" : "April 21, 2014", "Article" : "Oracle issued an advisory today listing both security updates and detailing what is known and unknown about the Heartbleed vulnerability's impact on Oracle products. "The Oracle Global Product Security and Development teams are investigating the use of the affected OpenSSL cryptographic libraries in Oracle products and will provide mitigation instructions when available for these affected Oracle products," Oracle noted in its advisory. "Note that only a number of OpenSSL cryptographic libraries versions were reported as affected by vulnerability CVE-2014-0160.u00a0 In other words, certain Oracle products, while they may be reported as using OpenSSL, may not be using versions of OpenSSL that were reported as vulnerable to CVE-2014-016." The products known to be vulnerable include and for which there are patches are: MySQL Connector/C 6.1.0-6.1.3; MySQL Connector/ODBC 5.1.13, 5.2.5-5.2.6 and 5.3.2; MySQL Enterprise Backup 3.10.0; MySQL Enterprise Monitor 2.3.13-2.3.15 and 3.0.0-3.0.8; MySQL Enterprise Server 5.6.11-5.6.17 and MySQL Workbench 6.1.4 and earlier. Other products known to be vulnerable that have patches available are: Oracle Big Data Appliance; Oracle Communications Interactive Session Recorder 4.0.0 and later; Oracle Communications Network Charging and Control 5.0.1; Oracle Communications Session Monitor Suite 3.3.40 and 3.3.50; Oracle Linux 6; Oracle Mobile Security Suite; Oracle Virtual Compute Appliance Software; and Solaris 11.2. There are other products that are considered likely to be vulnerable but have no fixes, such as Java ME - JSRs and Optional Packages and Oracle Communications Session Delivery Management Suite NNC 7.3. Several other products, including Java CAPS 6.2 and Siebel CRM, are considered by Oracle to be potentially vulnerable but are still under investigation.u00a0 "Oracleu2019s Cloud security and development teams are aware of the publicly disclosed vulnerability in certain versions of OpenSSL (a.k.a. CVE-2014-0160; or u2018Heartbleedu2019)," according to the advisory. "Oracle is investigating the implications of this issue across the Oracle stack." "The Oracle Cloud uses a u201cdefense in depthu201d approach to security, which provides risk mitigation due to layered controls," Oracle noted. Oracle has assessed that the infrastructure, systems and applications used to provide Oracle Cloud services (u201cCloud infrastructureu201d) were not at risk from this vulnerability, due to Oracleu2019s network architecture and use of SSL accelerators that have not been reported as vulnerable to CVE-2014-0160. Furthermore, Oracle has assessed our Cloud infrastructure using a number of automated and manual tests and continues to believe that it is not currently at risk from the CVE-2014-0160 vulnerability." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359adc6cefc42d78dc636f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Adds OpenVPN, Apache to Patch Rewards Program", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-adds-openvpn-apache-patch-rewards-program", "Date" : "November 19, 2013", "Article" : "Google's push to ferret out security holes in external products has been expanded to include the OpenVPN and Apache https, two of the most widely deployed open-source programs. The addition of the OpenVPN virtual private network and the Apache web server follows Google's October announcement to shell out cash rewards to hackers who find and responsibly report security vulnerabilities in non-Google products.  The company is paying between $500 and $3,133.70, depending on the class and severity of the reported vulnerability. According to Michal Zalewski from the Google Security Team, security improvements in third-party open-source programs "are vital to the health of the entire Internet." In addition to OpenVPN and Apache, Google is expanding the programu00a0to include web servers lighttpd and nginx; mail delivery services Sendmail, Postfix, Exim and Dovecot; the open-source components of Android; and several key open-source technologies that handle reliability on the Internet.u00a0 In October, the program launched with a challenge for hackers to find and report flaws in the following projects: - Core infrastructure network services: OpenSSH, BIND, ISC DHCP - Core infrastructure image parsers: libjpeg, libjpeg-turbo, libpng, giflib - Open-source foundations of Google Chrome: Chromium, Blink - Other high-impact libraries: OpenSSL, zlib - Security-critical, commonly used components of the Linux kernel (including KVM) u00a0 Related Reading: Bug Bounty Programs More Cost-Effective Than Hiring Security Experts " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359add6cefc42d78dc6370" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Akamai Reissuing SSL Keys After Flaw Found in Heartbleed Mitigation", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/akamai-reissuing-ssl-keys-after-flaw-found-heartbleed-mitigation", "Date" : "April 14, 2014", "Article" : "Akamai Technologies admitted custom code thought to protect against the Heartbleed vulnerability has a flaw of its own and has forced the company to reissue SSL certificates and keys to its customers. Last week, Akamai Technologies Chief Security Officer Andy Ellis blogged that while the company had been exposed to the vulnerability, its custom memory allocator protected against nearly every circumstance by which Heartbleed could have leaked SSL keys. However, recent findings by an independent security researcher forced the company to backtrack. "Over the weekend, an independent security researcheru00a0contacted Akamaiu00a0about some defects in the software we use for memory allocation around SSL keys,"u00a0blogged Ellis. "Weu00a0discussed Fridayu00a0how we believed this had provided our SSL keys with protection against Heartbleed and hadu00a0contributed the codeu00a0back to the community. The code that we had contributed back was, as we noted, not a full patch, but would be a starting point for improving the openssl codebase."u00a0 "In short: we had a bug," Ellis added. "An RSA key has 6 critical values; our code would only attempt to protect 3 parts of the secret key, but does not protect 3 others. Inu00a0particular, we only try to protect d, p, and q, but not d mod (p-1), d mod (q-1), or q^{-1} mod p. These intermediate extra values (the Chinese Remainder Theorem, or CRT, values) are calculated at key-generation time as a performance improvement. As the CRT values were not stored in the secure memory area, the possibility exists that these critical values for the SSL keys could have been exposed to an adversary exploiting the Heartbleed vulnerability. Given any CRT value, it is possible to calculate all 6 critical values." The issue was foundu00a0in Akamai's code by security researcher Willem Pinckaers.u00a0As a result of the finding, the company is rotating all customer SSL keys/certificates. Some of these certificates will quickly rotate, while others will require extra validation with the certificate authorities and may take longer. Since the bug's public disclosure last week,u00a0researchers have confirmedu00a0that the vulnerability does allow attackers to steal a Web server's private SSL keys. While it remains unclear how extensively the two-year old bug has been exploited, authorities in Canada said Monday that as many as 900 Canadian taxpayers had their data stolen due to a Heartbleed attack.u00a0 "This is indeed one of the worst vulnerabilities in the history of the web," said Amit Sethi, technical manager at Cigital. "It has been present in OpenSSL for over two years, during which time it has made it into a lot of software. Unlike many other vulnerabilities in SSL implementations that we have heard about in recent years, this one does not require the attacker to be positioned between your computer and the server. The attacker can go directly to the server and get any information that you recently exchanged with it over a secure channel." According to Symantec, none of the websites in Alexa's top 1,000 websites is currently vulnerable. Within the Alexa top 5,000, only 24 sitesu00a0were vulnerable asu00a0of April 12. Within the top 50,000, only 1.8 percent of the sites are susceptible to Heartbleed. "On the positive side, high-profile websites have been addressing the issue very quickly either by fixing it or by taking down their applications while they create a mitigation plan," Sethi said. "On the negative side, we may never know the full extent of the information that might have been stolen. We will likely see various attacks that use the stolen information in the days and weeks to come." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359ae16cefc42d78dc637b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Confirmed: Heartbleed Exposes Web Server's Private SSL Keys", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/confirmed-heartbleed-exposes-web-servers-private-ssl-keys", "Date" : "April 14, 2014", "Article" : "After details of the critical u201cHeartbleedu201d vulnerability in OpenSSL emerged last week, which enables attackers to steal sensitive data typically protected by TLS encryption, there has been widespread concern among system administrators, network security teams, software developers and essentially anyone with any technical connection to the Internet. One of the key concerns (no pun intended) was if an attacker could obtain the private SSL Keys from a server by exploiting Heartbleed.  In short, theu00a0Heartbleedu00a0vulnerability allows attackers to repeatedly access 64K blocks of memory by sending a specially crafted packet to a server running a vulnerable version of OpenSSL. Because an attacker can't specify what kind of data to obtain from the computer's memory or reliably get the same kind of information each time, the attack depends on luck and timing.  In an effort to help determine if private SSL keys were at risk, engineers at Web performance and security firm CloudFlare created a web site that was intentionally vulnerable to Heartbleed and encouraged researchers to attempt to get the private key from the server. As was assumed, and now confirmed, under the right circumstances, an attacker can retrieve a server's private key. While CloudFlare originally believed that obtaining private keys was not impossible, but rather difficult, it turns out that within a few hours, several researchers independently retrieved the private keys from the intentionally-vulnerable NGINX server using the Heartbleed exploit.  According to CloudFlareu2019s Nick Sullivan, Fedor Indutny, a software engineer from Russia, sent at least 2.5 million requests over the course of the day in his successful effort to obtain the key. Ilkka Mattila from NCSC-FI, who sent around a hundred thousand requests over the same period of time, was also successful in obtaining the private key. At least two others had success as well.u00a0 CloudFlare says that it confirmed with all individuals that they used only the Heartbleed exploit to obtain the private key.  According to Sullivan, CloudFlare engineers rebooted the server at 3:08PST, which may have caused the key to be available in uninitiallized heap memory. "It is more important than ever to check certificates to see if they have been revoked," Sullivan wrote in a follow-up blog post. "According to Netcraft that certificate revocation has gone up sharply since the Heartbleed vulnerability was announced." "We expect this trend to continue as more websites evaluate the risk that their private keys were stolen though Heartbleed," he continued. "If your site was vulnerable to Heartbleed, we encourage you to talk to your CA to revoke your certificate an rekey." The vulnerability is "catastrophicu201d for SSL and Internet security, Bruce Schneier, a well-known cryptologist and CTO of Co3 Systems, previously told SecurityWeek. u201cOn the scale of 1 to 10, this is an 11.u201d  While it's perfectly possible there are even more serious flaws in TLS lurking undiscovered, Heatbleed is quite possibly the worst one to date. Calling Heartbleed a u201cginormous issueu201d would be a conservative assessment, Schneier said. It's very likely governments around the world used Heartbleed to exploit whatever server they could and grab whatever they could get as soon as they heard about the vulnerability, Schneier suggested. u201cBecause why would you not?u201du00a0 On Friday, the NSA denied a report claiming it was aware of and even exploited Heartbleedu00a0to gather critical intelligence. "NSA was not aware of the recently identified vulnerability in OpenSSL, the so-called Heartbleed vulnerability, until it was made public in a private-sector cybersecurity report," an NSA spokeswoman said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359ae36cefc42d78dc6381" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "NSA Denies Exploiting 'Heartbleed' Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/nsa-denies-exploiting-heartbleed-vulnerability", "Date" : "April 11, 2014", "Article" : "WASHINGTON - The US National Security Agency on Friday denied a report claiming it was aware of and even exploited the "Heartbleed" online security flaw to gather critical intelligence.  The stern denial came amid growing panic among Internet users the world over about the newly exposed flaw, after a report by Bloomberg News said the spy agency decided to keep quiet about the matter and even used it to scoop up more data, including passwords.   "NSA was not aware of the recently identified vulnerability in OpenSSL, the so-called Heartbleed vulnerability, until it was made public in a private-sector cybersecurity report," NSA spokeswoman Vanee Vines said in an email.   "Reports that say otherwise are wrong."   OpenSSL is online-data scrambling software commonly used to protect passwords, credit card numbers and other data sent via the Internet.   A White House official also denied that any US agency was aware of the bug before it was revealed by security researchers earlier this month.   "Reports that NSA or any other part of the government were aware of the so-called Heartbleed vulnerability before April 2014 are wrong," White House national security spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said in a statement.   "This administration takes seriously its responsibility to help maintain an open, interoperable, secure and reliable Internet.   "If the federal government, including the intelligence community, had discovered this vulnerability prior to last week, it would have been disclosed to the community responsible for OpenSSL."  'Part of NSA Arsenal'u00a0  Bloomberg, citing two people said to be familiar with the matter, said the NSA was able to make Heartbleed part of its "arsenal" to obtain passwords and other data, without making public a vulnerability which could affect millions of Internet users.   The report said the secretive intelligence agency has more than 1,000 experts devoted to ferreting out these kinds of flaws and found the Heartbleed glitch shortly after its introduction.   The agency then made it part of its "toolkit for stealing account passwords and other common tasks," the report said. The claim was met with concerns in the security community.   "If the NSA really knew about Heartbleed, they have some *serious* explaining to do," cryptographer Matthew Green said on Twitter.   The Heartbleed flaw lets hackers snatch packets of data from working memory in computers, creating the potential for them to steal passwords, encryption keys, or other valuable information.   Warnings about the dangers have expanded in recent days, with everyone from website operators and bank officials to Internet surfers and workers who tele-commute being told their data could be in danger.   NSA was already in the spotlight after months of revelations about its vast data-gathering capabilities, along with partner intelligence agencies.   Documents leaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden indicated that the NSA has been able to collect data from millions of phone records and Internet conversations as part of its intelligence gathering.   NSA officials argue they use such data only to help root out suspected terrorists.   President Barack Obama has ordered reforms that would halt government bulk collection of telephone records, but critics argue this does not go far enough to protect civil liberties. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359ae76cefc42d78dc638c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Heartbleed Bug Shutters More Canadian Gov't Websites", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/heartbleed-bug-shutters-more-canadian-govt-websites", "Date" : "April 11, 2014", "Article" : "OTTAWA - Canada's government on Friday ordered all federal department websites vulnerable to the "Heartbleed" bug to be shut down.  "The chief information officer for the government of Canada issued a directive to all federal government departments to immediately disable public websites that are running unpatched OpenSSL software," Treasury Board President Tony Clement said a statement.  "This action is being taken as a precautionary measure until the appropriate security patches are in place and tested."  It is unclear how many government websites are affected, or how long they may be down.  The move comes two days after Canada's tax agency shuttered its website, ahead of an April 30 annual income tax filing deadline.  The recently-discovered flaw in online-data scrambling software OpenSSL allows hackers to eavesdrop on online communications, steal data, impersonate websites and unlock encrypted data.  OpenSSL is commonly used to protect passwords, credit card numbers and other data sent via the Internet.  More than half of websites use the software, but not all versions have the same vulnerability, according to heartbleed.com.  Cyber security firm Fox-It estimates that the vulnerability has existed for about two years, since the version of OpenSSL at issue was released.  Computer security specialists, website masters and others began fretting about the "Heartbleed" bug this week after several reports of hacking. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359ae76cefc42d78dc638d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Researchers Attack TLS, DTLS Protocol Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/researchers-attack-tls-dtls-protocol-vulnerability", "Date" : "February 04, 2013", "Article" : "Two researchers have uncovered a new vulnerability in the Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Datagram TLS (DTLS) protocols that allow attackers to recover plaintext from a TLS/DTLS connection when CBC-mode encryption is used. The attack would allow hackers to circumvent the protection the protocols are supposed to provide. This is not the first time researchers have poked holes in TLS; in 2011, researchers introduced BEAST, a tool that attacked TLS and the SSL (secure sockets layer) protocols. In this case, the Kenny Paterson - a professor at Royal Holloway, University of London u2013 and PhD student Nadhem AlFardan tested their attack against OpenSSL and GnuTLS and discovered that either a full or partial plaintext recovery attack was possible. "The attacks arise from a flaw in the TLS specification rather than as a bug in specific implementations," the researchers stated in a web post. "We have carried out experiments to demonstrate the feasibility of the attacks against the OpenSSL and GnuTLS implementations of TLS, and we have studied the source code of other implementations to determine whether they are likely to be vulnerable. There are effective countermeasures against our attacks and we have worked with a number of TLS and DTLS software developers to prepare patches and security advisories." Describing their attack as similar to an advanced form of Oracle padding, the researchers noted that for TLS, the attacks are multi-session attacks that require the target plaintext to be repeatedly sent in the same position in the plaintext stream in multiple TLS sessions. "The attacks involve detecting small differences in the time at which TLS error messages appear on the network in response to attacker-generated ciphertexts," according to the researchers. "Because of network jitter and other effects, the times observed by the attacker are noisy, and multiple samples of each time are needed to make the attacks reliable. In their simplest form, our attacks can reliably recover a complete block of TLS-encrypted plaintext using about 223u00a0TLS sessions, assuming the attacker is located on the same LAN as the machine being attacked and HMAC-SHA1 is used as TLS's MAC algorithm." "This can be reduced to 219u00a0TLS sessions if the plaintext is known to be base64 encoded. This can be further reduced to 213u00a0sessions per byte if a byte of plaintext in one of the last two positions in a block is already known. The attack complexities are different for different MAC algorithms," the researchers noted. The researchers published a number of mitigations, such as switching to AEAD ciphersuites such as AES-GCM or modifying TLS' CBC-mode decryption procedure to remove the timing side channel. OpenSSL, NSS, GnuTLS, yaSSL, PolarSSL, Opera, and BouncyCastle are all preparing patches to address the issue, and the researchers have notified Apple, Microsoft and other vendors of their findings as well. u201cUnlike other recent attacks, such as BEAST, Lucky 13 requires a server-side fix," said Ryan Hurst, CTO at certificate authority GlobalSign. "This means that complete and effective protection against this attack will require all Web servers to be updated or patched.u201d u201cShould you be worried? It depends. If you are using TLS (and not its little brother DTLS) I would say your best bet is to walk calmly to the nearest exit, and use this as an excuse to ensure you are following industry Best Practices when deploying SSL u2013 ifu00a0 youu2019re not, this attack is the least of your worries," said Hurst. According to the researchers, the attacks can only be carried out by a determined attacker who is located close to the machine being attacked and who can generate sufficient sessions for the attacks. "In this sense, the attacks do not pose a significant danger to ordinary users of TLS in their current form," the researchers noted. "However, it is a truism that attacks only get better with time, and we cannot anticipate what improvements to our attacks, or entirely new attacks, may yet to be discovered." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359ae86cefc42d78dc638e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL, OpenSSH, NTP Get Funding From Core Infrastructure Initiative", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/openssl-openssh-ntp-get-funding-core-infrastructure-initiative", "Date" : "May 30, 2014", "Article" : "The Linux Foundationu2019s Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII) announced on Thursday the open source software projects selected for the first round of funding. The CII Steering Committee has decided that Network Time Protocol (NTP), OpenSSH and OpenSSL will be the first projects to receive support. The fact that OpenSSL is among the first projects to recieve funds is not surprising, as the impactful Heartbleed vulnerability in OpenSSL was a driving force in the creation of CII.  From CII, OpenSSL will receive funds for two, fulltime core developers, but the project is also accepting donations directly through the OpenSSL Foundation. Funding for a security audit of the OpenSSL code base will also go to the Open Crypto Audit Project (OCAP). As far as NTP is concerned, the protocol has been increasingly abused by cybercriminals for distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. OpenSSH, the free version of the SSH protocol suite of network connectivity tools, has also been plagued by numerous vulnerabilities over the past years, and itu2019s important to ensure that a flaw as critical as Heartbleed will not emerge.  u201cAll software development requires support and funding. Open source software is no exception and warrants a level of support on par with the dominant role it plays supporting todayu2019s global information infrastructure,u201d noted Jim Zemlin, executive director at The Linux Foundation.  u201cCII implements the same collaborative approach that is used to build software to help fund the most critical projects. The aim of CII is to move from the reactive, crisis-driven responses to a measured, proactive way to identify and fund those projects that are in need. I am thrilled that we now have a forum to connect those in need with those with funds.u201d In addition to the first projects to be funded, CII has also announced that Bloomberg, Adobe, Huawei, HP and salesforce.com have showed their support for the initiative. They join companies like Google, Intel, IBM, VMware, Facebook, Amazon, Cisco, Dell, Fujitsu, Microsoft, NetApp and Rackspace. u201cAdobe believes thatu00a0open developmentu00a0and open source software are fundamental building blocks for software development,u201d commented Dave McAllister, director of open source at Adobe.u00a0u201cThe Core Infrastructure Initiative allows us to extend our support through a neutral forum that can prioritize underfunded yet critical projects. Weu2019re excited to be a part of this work.u201d  The critical infrastructure projects funded by the CII will be selected by an advisory board whose members are Googleu2019s Ted Tu2019so, Linux kernel developer Alan Cox, Matt Green of Open Crypto Audit Project, Eben Moglen of Software Freedom Law Center; security and cryptography expert Bruce Schneier, Dan Meredith of the Radio Free Asiau2019s Open Technology Fund, and Eric Sears of the MacArthur Foundation. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359af26cefc42d78dc63a8" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "'Heartbleed' Vulnerability Plugs Canada Tax Filing Website at Crunch Time", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/heartbleed-vulnerability-plugs-canada-tax-filing-website-crunch-time", "Date" : "April 09, 2014", "Article" : "Flaw Plugs Canada Tax Filing Website at Crunch Time   OTTAWA - Canada's tax agency shuttered its website Wednesday after warning that encrypted taxpayer data could be vulnerable to the "Heartbleed" bug.  The Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) said the decision, which comes only three weeks before the annual income tax filing deadline, was taken as a "preventative" measure.  "The CRA has temporarily shut down public access to our online services to safeguard the integrity of the information we hold," it said. Canadian taxpayers are expected to file their tax returns for 2013 with theu00a0Canadian Revenue Agency by April 30. Missing the filing deadline usually results in stiff penalties, but the CRA said "consideration" would be given to anyone affected by the website service interruption.  The agency last week said in a Twitter message that it was processing 1,763 online returns per minute -- a seasonal high.  As of March 24, 6,787,284 tax returns had been filed with the government agency, it said. Of those, 83.5 percent were filed online.  There are an estimated 22 million taxpayers in Canada.  The freshly-discovered flaw in online-data scrambling software OpenSSL allows hackers to eavesdrop on online communications, steal data, impersonate websites and unlock encrypted data.  OpenSSL is commonly used to protect passwords, credit card numbers and other data coursing through the Internet.  More than half of websites use the software, but not all versions have the same vulnerability, according to heartbleed.com.  Cyber security firm Fox-It estimates that the vulnerability has existed for about two years, since the version of OpenSSL at issue was released.  Computer security specialists, website masters and others began fretting about the bug this week after several reports of hacking.  The CRA said it would investigate any theft and abuse of taxpayer information resulting from security breaches. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359af66cefc42d78dc63b4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Mocana offers 'Drop-In' OpenSSL Replacement for Apache Web Servers", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/mocana-offers-drop-openssl-replacement-apache-web-servers", "Date" : "August 05, 2014", "Article" : "Security solutions vendor Mocana has taken somewhat of a sidestep from its focus as a provider of embedded device and mobile security solutions, and has released what it calls a highly secure drop-in replacement for the widely adopted OpenSSL stack for Apache Web servers.  Dubbed NorthStar, the solution was developed from the ground up using modern programming practices and tools by security experts to ensure high code quality, Mocana said. As an enterprise-grade secure connectivity solution for Apache web servers, NorthStar provides organizations with a high-quality secure sockets layer SSL/TLS alternative to OpenSSL that can be installed on Apache servers with a single command in a few minutes.  NorthStar includes all the necessary connecting u201cglueu201d needed to provide a simple, drop-in replacement for OpenSSL, the default cryptographic library provided for Apache web servers, Mocana added.u00a0 OpenSSL has proven to be highly vulnerable, as evidenced by the recent Heartbleed vulnerability discovered earlier this year, a flaw that still plagues many enterprises around the globe. In fact, according to a recent report from Venafi, just 3 percent of external-facing servers in the world's largest companies have been fully protected from the Heartbleed vulnerability. u201cComplexity is the enemy of security, and with 457,000 lines of code that need patching seemingly every week, OpenSSL has kept many IT managers awake at night, waiting to react to the next announced vulnerability. The code for the TLS stack in NorthStar is only a fraction of that size, and has been comprehensively tested,u201d said James Blaisdell, CTO at Mocana. u201cThe open source community has made numerous useful and popular contributions to the software industry, including the Apache server itself. But, it is clear that in the case of OpenSSL, this route has failed to keep up with industry and compliance requirements.u201d  San Francisco, Calif.-based Mocana also offers its NanoSSL solution for developers to provide secured data transport in embedded devices such as switches, routers, access points and modems, as well as medical equipment, industrial sensors, smart grid devices, camcorders and other devices that comprise the Internet of Things.  Available immediately for all major Linux platforms, pricing for NorthStar begins with a low volume subscription at $350 per server annually, with volume price discounts available. The company also is offering an option for an unlimited deployment for a three-year term. Licensed customers receive source code and precompiled binaries with per-server perpetual or subscription licensing. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359afc6cefc42d78dc63c1" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "NSA-Linked 'Extended Random' Extension Discovered Inside RSA BSAFE: Researchers", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/nsa-linked-extended-random-extension-discovered-inside-rsa-bsafe-researchers", "Date" : "April 01, 2014", "Article" : "A team of university professors say they have found evidence that RSA Security adopted a NSA-linked TLS extension to help the spy agency better crack encryption. News of the extension was broken by Reuters, which reported several months ago that RSA Security - now a division of EMC - was paid $10 million to make the flawed Dual Elliptic Curve Deterministic Random Bit Generator (Dual EC DRBG) the default in its BSAFE toolkits. Now, a team of academics say that there is evidence of a non-standard TLS extension known as "Extended Random" in the BSAFE products. This extension could be used to crack a version of the Dual Elliptic Curve algorithm tens of thousands of times faster than the backdoor, according to the researchers. "This extension," the researchers explained in a summary, "co-written at the request of the National Security Agency, allows a client to request longer TLS random nonces from the server, a feature that, if it enabled, would speed up the Dual EC attack by a factor of up to 65,000. In addition, the use of this extension allows for attacks on Dual EC instances configured with P-384 and P-521 elliptic curves, something that is not apparently possible in standard TLS." "While the code implementing Extended Random was not compiled into the build of Share for C/C++ examined, it was available (though deactivated) in the build of Share for Java that was analyzed," according to the summary. "In the latter case, the researchers were able to re-enable it and verify the functionality." "If using Dual Elliptic Curve is like playing with matches, then adding Extended Random is like dousing yourself with gasoline," Johns Hopkins University Professor Matthew Green reportedly told Reuters. Reuters reported that the extension was not widely adopted.u00a0EMC did not respond to SecurityWeek with commentary before publication. EMC in the past has denied RSA was ever involved in a contract or project with the intention of weakening its products.u00a0 The paper, titled 'On the Practical Exploitability of Dual EC in TLS Implementations', includes other information as well. For example, the researchers claim in the summary that the RSA BSAFE implementations of TLS make the Dual EC back door "easy to exploit compared to the other libraries analyzed."u00a0The C version of BSAFE makes it possible to speed exploitation by broadcasting long contiguous strings of random byes and by caching the output from each generator call, while the Java version of BSAFE includes fingerprints in connections and therefore makes it relatively easy to identify them in a stream of network traffic, according to the researchers.u00a0 The paper also notes a previously unknown bug in OpenSSL that prevents the library from running when Dual EC is enabled. In addition, the researchers found that the SChannel does not use the current Dual EC standard; instead it omits one step of the Dual EC algorithm. This omission makes the attacks slightly faster, the researcher state in the summary. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359b106cefc42d78dc63f5" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "BlackBerry Fixes Vulnerabilities Related to Heartbleed, Flash", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/blackberry-fixes-vulnerabilities-related-heartbleed-flash", "Date" : "May 13, 2014", "Article" : "BlackBerry released two security advisories today, including one related to the OpenSSL Heartbleed vulnerability. The first advisory addresses remote code execution vulnerabilities in Adobe Flash Player affecting BlackBerry Z10, BlackBerry Q10 and BlackBerry Q5 smartphones. The vulnerabilities are not known to be under attack. "BlackBerry customer risk is limited by the BlackBerry 10 OS design, which restricts an application's access to system resources and the private data of other applications," according to an advisory. "Successful exploitation requires an attacker to craft malicious Adobe Flash content and requires that a user access the malicious content on a webpage or as a downloaded Adobe AIR application. If the requirements are met for exploitation, an attacker could potentially execute code with the rights of the application that opens the specially crafted malicious Flash content." In addition to an advisory about the Flash vulnerabilities, BlackBerry also issuedu00a0a second advisory today related to Heartbleed dealing with a number of BlackBerry products, including BBM for Android and iPhone and Secure Work Space for iOS and Android, as well as BlackBerry Enterprise Service 10 and BlackBerry Link. "BlackBerry customer risk is limited in all cases by the requirement that an attacker first gain access to an affected product in order to then mount a successful attack," the advisory notes. "Additionally, BBM for Androidu00a0andu00a0iPhone, Secure Work Space, and Link, customer risk is also limited by the need for an attacker to successfully complete a man-in-the-middle attack that is capable of spoofing IP addresses. Successful exploitation requires an attacker to send a malformed request for a heartbeat reply to an SSL endpoint that is running a vulnerable version of OpenSSL. If the requirements are met for exploitation, an attacker could potentially gain access to limited but arbitrary data that is in memory. After installing the recommended software update, affected BlackBerry customers will be fully protected from this vulnerability." Scott Totzke, senior vice president for BlackBerry Security, said in a statement that the company's investigation of the Heartbleed vulnerability determined that the majority of BlackBerry products were not affected.u00a0 Separately, Microsoft and Adobe Systems also released security updates today to fix a number of critical vulnerabilities.u00a0The Microsoft updatesu00a0address 13 vulnerabilities affecting Windows, Internet Explorer, SharePoint and other products, while Adobeu00a0releasedu00a0updates for Acrobat, Flash Player, Reader and Adobe Illustrator.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359b196cefc42d78dc6409" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Siemens Fixes Vulnerabilities in SIMATIC WinCC SCADA System", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/siemens-fixes-vulnerabilities-simatic-wincc-scada-system", "Date" : "July 28, 2014", "Article" : "Siemens has released version 7.3 of the SIMATIC WinCC supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system to address several vulnerabilities, most of which can be exploited remotely. According to advisories published by both Siemens and ICS-CERT last week, the vulnerabilities affect all prior versions of SIMATIC WinCC, a SCADA system that's used to monitor and control physical processes in industries such as chemical, food and beverage, oil and gas, and water. The first vulnerability (CVE-2014-4682), described as a "forced browsing" issue, affects the SIMATIC WinCC WebNavigator server. An attacker could gain unauthenticated access to sensitive data by sending specially crafted HTTP requests to Port 80/TCP or Port 443/TCP. An attacker could also escalate privileges in WinCC due to an issue in the access control settings of the WebNavigator server at Port 80/TCP and Port 443/TCP (CVE-2014-4683). Additionally, an improper privilege management issue (CVE-2014-4684) can be leveraged to escalate privileges in the SIMATIC WinCC database server by sending it a specially crafted command at Port 1433/TCP. Security researchers also found a way to escalate privileges in the WinCC Project administration application with the aid of a hard-coded cryptographic key that can be obtained by intercepting a legitimate user's network traffic on Port 1030/TCP (CVE-2014-4686). The last vulnerability (CVE-2014-4685), the only one that can't be exploited remotely, is related to permissions, privileges and access controls.  "Access permissions on system objects could allow a local user to obtain limited escalated privileges within the operating system," Siemens and ICS-CERT said in their advisories.  Siemens has clarified that the vulnerabilities can only be exploited if the attacker has network access to the corresponding port. Furthermore, authenticated access is required for CVE-2014-4683 and CVE-2014-4684. Sergey Gordeychik, Alexander Tlyapov, Dmitry Nagibin, and Gleb Gritsai of Positive Technologies and an anonymous researcher have been credited for finding and reporting the security holes.  The flaws also affect the SIMATIC PCS7 distributed control system, versions prior to 8.1, because WinCC is incorporated into the product. However, SIMATIC PCS7 8.1 will only be released in the months ahead, Siemens said. ICS-CERT says it's not aware of publicly available exploits that target these vulnerabilities. However, organizations are advised to update their installations as soon as possible, or apply certain steps described in the security advisories to mitigate the risk. Earlier this month, Siemens released updates for several of its industrial products to address four recently patched OpenSSL vulnerabilities. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359b576cefc42d78dc64aa" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Releases Android Patches After Bitcoin Theft", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-releases-android-patches-after-bitcoin-theft", "Date" : "August 15, 2013", "Article" : "Google has pushed out patches to partners to address a cryptographic vulnerability tied to the theft of bitcoins from Android users. According Android security engineer Alex Klyubin, applications that use the Java Cryptography Architecture (JCA) for key generation, signing or random number generation may not receive cryptographically strong values on Android devices because of improper initialization of the underlying PRNG. "Applications that directly invoke the system-provided OpenSSL PRNG without explicit initialization on Android are also affected,"u00a0wrote Klyubin. "Applications that establish TLS/SSL connections using theu00a0HttpClientu00a0andu00a0java.netu00a0classes are not affected as those classes do seed the OpenSSL PRNG with values fromu00a0/dev/urandom." In addition, Google has developed patches to ensure Android's OpenSSL PRNG is initialized correctly and provided them to Open Handset Alliance (OHA) partners. The issue came to light after users of a Bitcoin forum reported Saturday their bitcoins had been stolen. According to Bitcoin.org, the problem can affect anyone with a bitcoin wallet generated by any Android app, including Bitcoin Wallet, BitcoinSpinner and Mycelium Wallet. Apps where users don't control the private keys are not affected, such as exchange frontends like the Coinbase or Mt. Gox apps. "If you can't update your Android app, alternatively, you can send your bitcoins to a Bitcoin wallet on your computer until your Android app can be updated," according to Bitcoin.org. "You should make sure not to send back your bitcoins to your old insecure addresses." Related Podcast:  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3834b76cefc42b0029463d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenVPN Patches Critical Remote Code Execution Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openvpn-patches-critical-remote-code-execution-vulnerability/126425/", "Date" : "June 21, 2017 , 11:14 am", "Article" : "OpenVPN has this week patched four vulnerabilities, including a critical remote code execution bug, a little more than a month after the results of two security audits of the open source VPN software were published. The patches were released after private disclosures in May and June by researcher Guido Vranken of the Netherlands. Vranken said the vulnerabilities were not turned up in either audit, which were a combination of manual source code reviews and automated scanning; Vranken said he exclusively used a fuzzer to find these bugs. The most critical vulnerability, CVE-2017-7521, affects OpenVPN server side and could allow an authenticated hacker to run code on a compromised box. u201cCVE-2017-7521 can drain the server of available memory, which may lead to a u2018double-free,u2019 which is a way to corrupt the serveru2019s memory. In short, the worst-case scenario is that the user can execute their code on the server,u201d Vranken said. u201cThis is the worst vulnerability. They authenticate and then send crafted data, after which the server crashes. Iu2019d say this a worrisome issue for (commercial) VPN providers, so they definitely need to update as soon as possible.u201d Vranken was unaware whether any of the vulnerabilities had been publicly exploited. u201cThis is difficult for me to say. But Iu2019d say that if I can do this in a couple of weeks of spare time out of sheer curiosity, heavily funded organizations with political objectives can do it too,u201d he said. Three of the four vulnerabilities Vranken discovered were server-side with the other two causing servers to crash. The client-side bug allows an attacker to steal a password to gain access to the proxy, Vranken said, adding that the three server flaws require the attacker be authenticated in order to exploit. u201cThe crashes and the one that steals the password are not so difficult. A medium level of understanding of the C programming language and computer internals would be sufficient,u201d Vranken said as to the ease of exploit. u201cIt is also relatively easy to drain the server of memory. But to exploit that to achieve remote code execution, requires a high level of expertise.u201d Vranken provide in-depth technical explanations of each bug in a report published today. In the critical vulnerability, Vranken explains how he achieved a remote memory leak because of OpenVPNu2019s failure to check a particular return value. From his report: u201cIf you look in the OpenSSL source code, one way through which ASN1_STRING_to_UTF8 can fail is if it cannot allocate sufficient memory. So the fact that an attacker can trigger a double-free IF the server has insufficient memory, combined with the fact that the attacker can arbitrarily drain the server of memory, makes it plausible that a remote double-free can be achieved. But if a double-free is inadequate to achieve remote code execution, there are probably other functions, whose behavior is wildly different under memory duress, that you can exploit.u201d The client-side bug also merits attention, Vranken said, adding that it is triggered only under particular certain circumstances, such as when the client connects to a proxy via NTLM version 2 authentication. u201cAll the server issues require that the user is authenticated. This requires that the system administrator signs the certificate of a malicious user,u201d Vranken said. u201cFor individual users who run their private server this is unlikely to occur, but it is bad for VPN services that have automated this process for a large group of (untrusted) users.u201d One of the OpenVPN audits, carried out from December 2016 to February 2017, found a handful of low and medium issues but no major vulnerabilities. That audit lauded OpenVPNu2019s overall cryptographic design, calling it solid with a caveat that some implementations could u201cundermine a useru2019s ability to deploy a secure VPN solutionu201d however. These bugs were patched in May. The other audit was more of a security evaluation of the software running in OpenVPN 2.4.0; it found two bugs that were also patched in May. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3834fd6cefc42b0029468c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Oracle Issues Emergency Patches for u2018JoltandBleedu2019 Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/oracle-issues-emergency-patches-for-joltandbleed-vulnerabilities/128922/", "Date" : "November 16, 2017 , 5:05 pm", "Article" : "Oracle pushed out an emergency update for vulnerabilities affecting several of its products that rely on its proprietary Jolt protocol. The bugs were discovered by researchers at ERPScan who named the series of five vulnerabilities JoltandBleed. The vulnerabilities are severe, with two of the bugs scoring 9.9 and 10 on the CVSS scale. u00a0Products affected include Oracle PeopleSoft Campus Solutions, Human Capital Management, Financial Management, and Supply Chain Management, as well other product using the Tuxedo 2 application server. Oracleu2019s Jolt protocol is used by the Tuxedo 2 application server. ERPScan calls the vulnerabilities JoltandBleed because of similarities between the 2014 vulnerability discovered in OpenSSL HeartBleed bug. According to Oracle, the vulnerabilities u201cmay be exploited over a network without the need for a valid username and passwordu2026 Since Oracle PeopleSoft products include and use Oracle Tuxedo in their distributions, PeopleSoft customers should apply the Tuxedo patches.u201d Oracle said customers need to u201capply the updates provided by this security alert as soon as possible.u201d Oracle made the patches available Tuesday for Oracle Fusion Middleware, which address all vulnerabilities. Oracle Tuxedo is a component of Oracle Fusion Middleware. ERPScan released its research on JoltandBleed Thursday in a paper released at the the DeepSec conference in Vienna, Austria. ERPScan said the vulnerabilities open up affected products to attackers gaining full access to all data. It describes the vulnerabilities as such: CVE-2017-10272 is a vulnerability of memory disclosure; its exploitation gives an attacker a chance to remotely read the memory of the server (9.9 on CVSS scale) CVE-2017-10267 is a vulneralility of stack overflows (7.5 on CVSS scale) CVE-2017-10278 is a vulneralility of heap overflows (7.0 on CVSS scale) CVE-2017-10266 is a vulnerability that makes it possible for a malicious actor to brute-force passwords of DomainPWD which is used for the Jolt Protocol authentication (5.3 on CVSS scale) CVE-2017-10269 is a vulnerability affecting the Jolt Protocol; it enables an attacker to compromise the whole PeopleSoft system. (10 on CVSS scale) u201cThis error is originated with that how Jolt Handler processes a command with opcode 0x32. If the package structure is incorrect, a programmer has to provide a Jolt client with a certain Jolt response indicating there is an error in the communication process,u201d researchers at ERPScan wrote. Researchers said the underlying vulnerability was caused by a programmer that made a mistake in coding a function call that was responsible for packing data to transmit. u201cThe confusion was between 2 functions, jtohi and htoji. Consequently, packing of a constant package length that must be 0x40 bytes is actually 0x40000000,u201d they wrote. u201cThen a client initiates the transmission of 0x40000000 bytes of data. Manipulating the communication with the client, an attacker can achieve a stable work of a server side and sensitive data leakage. Initiating a mass of connections, the hacker passively collects the internal memory of the Jolt server,u201d ERPScan said. This leads to the leakage of credentials when a user enters them through PeopleSoft systemu2019s web interface, researchers said. According to Oracle the (CVE-2017-10272) memory disclosure vulnerability is easy to exploit and allows a low privileged attacker with network access via Jolt to compromise Oracle Tuxedo. u201cWhile the vulnerability is in Oracle Tuxedo, attacks may significantly impact additional products. Successful attacks of this vulnerability can result in unauthorized creation, deletion or modification access to critical data or all Oracle Tuxedo accessible data as well as unauthorized access to critical data or complete access to all Oracle Tuxedo accessible data and unauthorized ability to cause a partial denial of service of Oracle Tuxedo,u201d Oracle wrote regarding CVE-2017-10272. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38351c6cefc42b002946b8" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Zerodium Offers $500K for Secure Messaging App Zero Days", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/zerodium-offers-500k-for-secure-messaging-app-zero-days/127610/", "Date" : "August 23, 2017 , 2:32 pm", "Article" : "Zerodium, a vendor operating in the nebulous exploit acquisition market, has put a premium on zero-day vulnerabilities in secure messaging applications in a new pricing structure announced today. Remote code execution and local privilege elevation zero days in messaging apps such as WhatsApp, Signal, Facebook Messenger, iMessage, Telegram and others can fetch $500,000 from the companyu2019s program. Secure messaging apps have been a controversial focal point between law enforcement, governments and privacy-focused users and advocates. The issue crested last year with the FBIu2019s insistence that Apple help circumvent a terroristu2019s iPhone, with the case eventually being dropped in court after the FBI procured a means of unlocking the phone without Appleu2019s intervention. Zerodium, founded by former VUPEN cofounder Chaouki Bekrar, buys zero days and makes them available in a feed of exploits and defensive capabilities to its customers. The attacks and vulnerabilities are not shared with the affected vendor, therefore remain unpatchedu2013obviously not the preferred outcome for software companies. Bekrar, meanwhile, has always maintained that Zerodium and VUPEN before it sell only to democratic and non-sanctioned governments. Todayu2019s pricing changes focused mainly on mobile. The company is also offering a half-million dollar payout for remote code execution and local privilege escalation (LPE) bugs in default mobile email applications, $150,000 for baseband and media file or document RCE and LPE attacks, $100,000 for sandbox escapes, code-signing bypasses, kernel LPE, Wi-Fi RCE and LPE, and SS7 attacks. Bekrar told Threatpost that Zerodiumu2019s government customers are in need of advanced capabilities and zero-day exploits that allow them to track criminals using these secure mobile apps. u201cThe high value of zero-day exploits for such apps comes from both a high demand by customers and a small attack surface in these apps which makes the discovery and exploitation of critical bugs very challenging for security researchers,u201d Bekrar said. Requests for comment from Signal creator Moxie Marlinspike, as well as from WhatsApp and Facebook were not returned in time for publication. Zerodium also announced that it would offer $300,000 for Windows 10 remote code execution zero days, specifically remote exploits targeting default Windows services such as SMB or RDP. Web server zero days, specifically Apache on Linux and Microsoft IIS remote code execution attacks, are now worth $150,000, while a Microsoft Outlook RCE is worth $100,000. Mozilla Thunderbird RCE and VMware ESXi guest-to-host escapes are both worth $80,000. Zerodium also doubledu2014or nearly doubledu2014payouts for Chrome, PHP and OpenSSL attacks, while Tor RCEs on Linux and Windows climbed from $30,000 to $100,000 and $80,000 respectively. Nearly a year ago, Zerodium tripled the bounty it offers for an Apple iOS 10 remote jailbreak to $1.5 million, after previously offering $1 million for iOS 9 zero days. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835ee6cefc42b002947c4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "FreeRADIUS Update Patches Bugs Static Analysis Tools Missed", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/freeradius-update-patches-bugs-static-analysis-tools-missed/126872/", "Date" : "July 17, 2017 , 2:09 pm", "Article" : "FreeRADIUS, the popular open source RADIUS server, today published updates that include fixes for a number of security issues uncovered by a custom fuzzer built by Dutch researcher Guido Vranken. Vranken used a custom version of libFuzzer to find a handful of serious bugs in OpenVPN that were ultimately patched in late June. A memory leak related to misuse of the OpenSSL API in OpenVPN was also found in and disclosed to FreeRADIUS, prompting the project to commission Vranken to take a closer look at the server software. What he found were 15 vulnerabilities, nine in RADIUS (five of which are unexploitable, FreeRADIUS said) and six others in DHCP. Two of the RADIUS vulnerabilities are remote code execution bugs. u201cThatu2019s about as bad as it gets,u201d FreeRADIUS cofounder Alan DeKok said. What also disappointed DeKok was that four commercial static analysis tools used since version 3 of the software failed to catch any of the bugs. u201cThe biggest disappointment for me was that the 4 static analysis tools are just inadequate.u00a0While they each found things, none of them found the errors found by fuzzing,u201d DeKok said. u201cIt looks like static analysis tools are best at tracking issues found via complex program state. e.g. functions calling other functions. They are not that good at tracking complex data state, e.g. packet parsing.u201d While some of the vulnerabilities are critical, exploiting them could be a challenge in most configurations, for example, if the RADIUS server is on a private network and accessible only by managed devices. FreeRADIUS cautions, however, that if the server is part of a roaming consortium or if itu2019s on the public internetu2014which is not recommendedu2014then it can be attacked. u201cTo be clear: these issues arenu2019t exploitable by end users in any way. Even the roaming groups typically use IPSec or TLS to transport RADIUS traffic, which means theyu2019re largely not vulnerable, either,u201d DeKok said. u201cThe people who are vulnerable are the people who have their RADIUS servers on the public internet.u00a0That has always been a security problem, due to the design limitations of RADIUS.u201d RADIUS servers are based on the RADIUS networking protocol that facilitates centralized authentication and authorization for users connected to network services. DeKok describes RADIUSu2019 security, from a design perspective, as u201cpoor,u201d particularly because its Access-Request packets are not digitally signed. u201cIf they had been signed, the issues presented today would not be anywhere near as problematic,u201d DeKok said. u201cThe standards have suggested that Access-Request packets be signed since 2007, when RFC 5080 was published.u00a0I was pushing for that since at least 2004, IIRC. u201cIu2019m disappointed that most RADIUS vendors have not followed decade-old advice, and fixed their products to be compliant with RFC 5080,u201d DeKok continued. u201cSigning those packets is almost zero-cost: 18 bytes in a packet, one HMAC-MD5 calculation, maybe 20 lines of code. Yet 10 years on, Iu2019m not aware of any RADIUS vendor (other than FreeRADIUS) which signs all Access-Request packets by default.u201d Versions 2 and 3 are affected by the vulnerabilities, which are explained in detail in the FreeRADIUS advisory. Vrankenu2019s fuzzer, meanwhile, will be integrated into future releases of FreeRADIUS, DeKok said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38368d6cefc42b0029487f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Cloudflare Bug Leaks Sensitive Data", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cloudflare-bug-leaks-sensitive-data/123891/", "Date" : "February 24, 2017 , 10:48 am", "Article" : "The Cloudflare content delivery network for months has been leaking customer data, everything from private messages to encryption keys and credentials belonging to users of some of the Internetu2019s biggest properties. The vulnerability has been addressed, Cloudflare CTO John Graham-Cumming said, but not before sensitive data was exposed belonging to users of a number of web-based services including Uber, Fitbit, OK Cupid and others. Google Project Zero researcher Tavis Ormandy privately disclosed the issue last Friday to Cloudflare, which said that three u201cminoru201d features were to blame and had since been turned off. The first of the features, Graham-Cumming said, was turned on last Sept. 22, but he said that the time of greatest potential impact started Feb. 13 and lasted until Ormandyu2019s disclosure last Saturday. Ormandy said in a bug report posted to the Project Zero feed that he saw some unexpected data surface during an unrelated project. The data was uninitialized memory among valid data that he determined was coming from a Cloudflare reverse proxy. u201cIt looked like that if an html page hosted behind Cloudflare had a specific combination of unbalanced tags, the proxy would intersperse pages of uninitialized memory into the output (kinda like Heartbleed, but Cloudflare-specific and worse for reasons Iu2019ll explain later),u201d Ormandy said in his report. u201cMy working theory was that this was related to their u2018ScrapeShieldu2019 feature which parses and obfuscates html u2013 but because reverse proxies are shared between customers, it would affect *all* Cloudflare customers.u201d The issue has been informally called Cloudbleed given its similarities to Heartbleed, a major OpenSSL vulnerability in 2014 that also leaked sensitive information in memory. Ormandy said it didnu2019t take long during an analysis of some live samples to see encryption keys, cookies, passwords, POST data and HTTPS requests for other Cloudflare-hosted sites among the data coming from other users. Ormandy shared what he had found with Cloudflare and yesterday disclosed in a tweet that the service was leaking customer HTTPS sessions including those from Uber, Fitbit, 1Password, OKCupid and others.  1Password quickly refuted that the Cloudflare bug affected its data, and said it designed 1Password to protect against incidents like this when TLS fails. An Uber representative said the impact against its users was minimal. u201cVery little Uber traffic actually goes through Cloudflare,u201d Uber told Threatpost. u201cOnly a handful of tokens were involved and have since been changed. Passwords were not exposed.u201d OKCupid also said itu2019s investigating. u201cCloudflare alerted us last night of their bug and weu2019ve been looking into its impact on OkCupid members. Our initial investigation has revealed minimal, if any, exposure,u201d an OKCupid representative told Threatpost. u201cIf we determine that any of our users has been impacted we will promptly notify them and take action to protect them.u201d Fitbit told Threatpost that affected users should consider changing their passwords. u201cWe are currently investigating the issue reported with Cloudflareu2019s service to understand how it impacts our users. We encourage anyone who believes they have an issue to notify our team atu00a0security@fitbit.com,u201d Fitbit told Threatpost. u201cConcerned users can change their account password, followed by logging out and in to the mobile application with the new password. We recommend that users avoid reusing passwords associated with their email address or any other accounts, as this practice leaves them more vulnerable to malicious behavior.u201d None of the other implicated services have made public statements. Meanwhile, there is a tracker available on Github listing some 4.3 million sites potentially affected by Cloudbleed.   Cloudflareu2019s Graham-Cumming said that in some circumstances, the companyu2019s edge servers ran past the end of a buffer and returned memory containing private information. He clarified that no customer SSL keys were leaked because SSL connections are terminated at an isolated NGINX instance. Graham-Cumming blamed an HTML parser present in three features for the leakage. He said that between Feb. 13 and 18, 1 in 3.3 million HTTP requests resulted in memory leakage, 0.00003 percent of all requests. Cloudflare said it replaced its Ragel HTML parser a year ago with a homemade parser called cf-html. The underlying bug, it said, was in the Ragel parser as well but was never triggered because of the way the NGINX buffers were used. The new parser, however, changed the buffering and caused the leakage. The three features using the parser: Automatic HTTP Rewrites (enabled Sept. 22), Server-Side Excludes (enabled Jan. 30), and Email Obfuscation (enabled Feb. 13) were globally disabled or patched upon learning of the bug. u201cOnce we knew that the bug was being caused by the activation of cf-html (but before we knew why) we disabled the three features that caused it to be used. Every feature Cloudflare ships has a correspondingu00a0feature flag, which we call a u2018global killu2019. We activated the Email Obfuscation global kill 47 minutes after receiving details of the problem and the Automatic HTTPS Rewrites global kill 3h05m later,u201d Graham-Cumming said. u201cThe Email Obfuscation feature had been changed on February 13 and was the primary cause of the leaked memory, thus disabling it quickly stopped almost all memory leaks. u201cWithin a few seconds, those features were disabled worldwide,u201d he said. u201cWe confirmed we were not seeing memory leakage via test URIs and had Google double check that they saw the same thing.u201d A lingering issue is that search engines have cached the leaked memory, and Cloudflare is working with Google and other providers to scrub those leaks from caches. u201cWeu2019ve been trying to help clean up cached pages inadvertently crawled at Google. This is just a Band-Aid, but weu2019re doing what we can. Cloudflare customers are going to need to decide if they need to rotate secrets and notify their users based on the facts we know,u201d Ormandy said on Sunday. u201cI donu2019t know if this issue was noticed and exploited, but Iu2019m sure other crawlers have collected data and that users have saved or cached content and donu2019t realize what they have, etc. Weu2019ve discovered (and purged) cached pages that contain private messages from well-known services, PII from major sites that use Cloudflare, and even plaintext API requests from a popular password manager that were sent over https (!!).u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3836b86cefc42b002948aa" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Update Fixes High-Severity DoS Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-update-fixes-high-severity-dos-vulnerability/123818/", "Date" : "February 21, 2017 , 4:02 pm", "Article" : "The OpenSSL Software Foundation released an update to theu00a0OpenSSL crypto libraryu00a0that patches a vulnerability rated high severity thatu00a0could allow a remote attacker to cause a denial-of-service condition. OpenSSL released the version 1.1.0e update that fixes flaws found in OpenSSL 1.1.0, according to the OpenSSL Security Advisory issued last week. The United States Computer Emergency Response Team also alerted system admins of the issue last week. According to OpenSSL, the vulnerability occurs during a renegotiation handshake procedure. u201cIf the Encrypt-Then-Mac extension is negotiated where it was not in the original handshake (or vice-versa) then this can cause OpenSSL to crash (dependent on ciphersuite). Both clients and servers are affected,u201d according to the advisory. OpenSSL is ubiquitous, in tens of thousands of commercial and homespun software projects. The open source project provides a robust, commercial-grade, and full-featured toolkit for the Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocols. The technology is credited for keeping communications secure between endpoints by ensuring the identity of both parties. According OpenSSL, the issue does not impact OpenSSL version 1.0.2. However, additional versions of OpenSSL, such as version 1.0.0 and 0.9.8, which are no longer supported, will also need updates. The bug, CVE-2017-3733, was reported by Red Hatu2019s Joe Orton on Jan. 31. The fix was developed by the OpenSSL teamu2019s Matt Caswell. OpenSSL deployments continue to be plagued by theu00a0Heartbleed vulnerability. The flaw persists today and can be found on almost 200,000 servers and devices, according to a recent report by the operators of Shodan search engine. Earlier this month Ubuntu users were urged to update their operating system to address a handful of patched OpenSSL vulnerabilities (CVE-2016-7056 and CVE-2016-7055) which affect Ubuntu and its derivatives. The OpenSSL toolkit is licensed under an Apache-style license and has the financial backing of firms such as The Linux Foundation, Microsoft, Facebook, Amazon, Dell and Google. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3836be6cefc42b002948b3" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Debuts Continuous Fuzzer for Open Source Software", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-debuts-continuous-fuzzer-for-open-source-software/122250/", "Date" : "December 5, 2016 , 3:22 pm", "Article" : "A new Google program aimed at continuously fuzzing open source software has already detected over 150 bugs. The program, OSS-Fuzz, currently in beta mode, is designed to help unearth programming errors in open source software via fuzz testing. Fuzz testing, or fuzzing is when bits of randomly generated code is inputted into programs as a means to discover code and security flaws. Chrome security engineersu00a0Oliver Chang and Abhishek Arya, Google software engineers Kostya Serebryany and Mike Aizatsky, and Meredith Whittaker, who leads Googleu2019s Open Source Research group, announced the project last Thursday.  The program was developed with help from the Core Infrastructure Initiative, a Linux Foundation collaborative that counts Cisco, Facebook, and Microsoft among its members. u201cOpen source software is the backbone of the many apps, sites, services, and networked things that make up u2018the internet.u2019 It is important that the open source foundation be stable, secure, and reliable, as cracks and weaknesses impact all who build on it,u201d the engineers wrote Thursday, u201cOSS-Fuzzu2019s goal is to make common software infrastructure more secure and stable by combining modern fuzzing techniques with scalable distributed execution.u201d The project is built on fuzzing engineers such as libFuzzer, sanitizers, AddressSanitizer and a distributed fuzzing infrastructure that catalogs fuzz statistics called ClusterFuzz. The program has identified bugs in projects pcre2, libchewing and FFmpeg so far. Even more impressive is that Google claims OSS-Fuzz is cranking out four trillion test cases a week. Engineers sayu00a0FreeType, an open source library thatu2019s used to display text, is a perfect example of what OSS-Fuzzing can achieve. One of FreeType libraryu2019s developers, Werner Lemburg, adopted OSS-Fuzz early on. In October, after a heap buffer overflow was identified in the library, OSS-Fuzz notified the maintainer, who went on to fix the bug. It was confirmed fixed by OSS-Fuzz the same day,u00a0Google says. While the program is in its infancy, developers and open source proponents have lauded Google for the program. Alex Gaynor, who writes a lot of open source code andu00a0previously served as the director of the Python Software Foundation and the Django Software Foundation, tested OSS-Fuzz late last weeku00a0and calledu00a0the experience u201cextremely good.u201d u201cI definitely think itu2019s something that every OSS project should take a look at,u201d Gaynor told Threatpost Monday. Gaynor, who penned a blog entry around his experience on Saturday, used OSS-Fuzz to test libyaml, a C library YAML 1.1 parser and emitter thatu2019s the basis for both Python and Rubyu2019s YAML libraries. The program ran 17 billion testcases against the library in under a day, according to Gaynor, roughly 30 days of CPU time in less than a calendar day. While developers have to build fuzzers specific to their project, OSS-Fuzz does most of the work, Gaynor says. He added that in his short experience, sending pull requests for projects is easy enough. The program will file any bugs it discovers privately and leave a comment when it thinks a crash has been fixed. It makes the bug public seven days after itu2019s been fixed and even u201chandles automatically rebuilding when the upstream source changes,u201d Gaynor points out. u201cIt was almost no work to write a fuzzing function and get it running, and OSS-Fuzz handles tons of the details around making fuzzing at scale practical; this makes the experience far more pleasant than if Iu2019d jerryu2013rigged something together myself,u201d Gaynor, who currently works for the United States Digital Serviceu2013part of the Executive Office of the President, wrote. Gaynor said Monday the only area OSS-Fuzz might need a slight tweak in is its user interface. u201cIn terms of areas for improvement, the biggest one would be the UI used for looking at stats and crash reports, which needs a bit more polish for non-internal audiences,u201d Gaynor said. Open source software experts like Jim Zemlin, executive director at the Linux Foundation, also took time to laud the project on Twitter last week.  Now that the program has been announced, Google claims its main focus is fostering OSS-Fuzz usage. The company is encouraging open source projects, as long as theyu00a0have a large user base, to join OSS-Fuzz. By doing so, developers would have to subject themselves to Googleu2019s 90-day disclosure deadline but theyu2019d also be joining a rich open source community, the engineers say. While oftenu00a0viewed as a nuisance, low level bugs like buffer overflow and use-after-free vulnerabilities can have a pivotal impact on software security, especially in the open source realm.u00a0Vulnerabilities in libStageFright, a software library coded in C++; part of the Android Open Source Project, led to a series of bugs last year which went on to enable remote code execution and privilege escalation. The venture is one of the latest efforts from the CII to bolster open source software security. Earlier this year the consortium unveiled a badge program designed to help developers self-certify their projects. The program, which counted GitLab, Node.js, and OpenSSL as early adopters, encourages open source software to follow best practices and self-disclose their security aspects. The CII was also behind the Open Crypto Audit Project, which was responsible for last yearu2019s TrueCrypt auditu00a0and also helped fund the current large scale audit of OpenSSL. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3836c66cefc42b002948bb" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Fixes Critical Bug Introduced by Latest Update", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-fixes-critical-bug-introduced-by-latest-update/120851/", "Date" : "September 26, 2016 , 10:45 am", "Article" : "OpenSSL today released an emergency security update after a patch in its most recent update issued last week introduced a critical vulnerability in the cryptographic library. The new flaw affects only OpenSSL 1.1.0a, which was made available last Thursday; users are urged to update to 1.1.0b immediately. The original patch addressed an issue, CVE-2016-6307, where there was excessive memory allocation in tls_get_message_header. OpenSSL rated that flaw a low-severity bug and said it could cause servers to crash. The patch, however, brought a new vulnerability to the code where if messages larger than 16k are received, the underlying buffer that stores the message would be reallocated and moved, OpenSSL said. u201cUnfortunately a dangling pointer to the old location is left which results in an attempt to write to the previously freed location,u201d OpenSSL said in its advisory today. u201cThis is likely to result in a crash, however it could potentially lead to execution of arbitrary code.u201d OpenSSL also included a patch for another new vulnerability affecting only OpenSSL 1.0.2i, which was also released last week. The bug, CVE-2016-7052, is labeled a missing certificate revocation list (CRL) sanity check component. The sanity check, OpenSSL said, was added originally to 1.1.0, but omitted from 1.0.2i. u201cAs a result any attempt to use CRLs in OpenSSL 1.0.2i will crash with a null pointer exception,u201d OpenSSL said. It added that users should upgrade to 1.0.2j to remedy this issue. Last weeku2019s update patched only one critical vulnerability, which was found and fixed in OpenSSLu2019s implementation of the Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) that could cause servers to crash, and in some situations, allows attackers to execute arbitrary code. OCSP is considered an alternative to CRLs and is used by a client to ping a server requesting the status of a digital certificate. A client sending an overly large OCSP Status Request extension could trigger the bug and crash the server, OpenSSL said. OpenSSL also mitigated the SWEET32 vulnerability, CVE-2016-2183. Sweet32 was disclosed in August and affected 64-bit ciphers such as Triple-DES (3DES) and Blowfish and could allow an attacker to recover authentication cookie data from 3DES traffic, and usernames and passwords from OpenVPN traffic, which is secured by Blowfish. As expected, OpenSSL moved 64-bit ciphers from the high cipherstring group to medium in OpenSSL 1.0.1 and 1.0.2. OpenSSL 1.1.0 disables these ciphersuites by default. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3836c96cefc42b002948c2" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patches High-Severity OCSP Bug, Mitigates SWEET32 Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-patches-high-severity-ocsp-bug-mitigates-sweet32-attack/120845/", "Date" : "September 23, 2016 , 3:47 pm", "Article" : "A vulnerability in the OpenSSL implementation of the Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) was patched this week, closing a denial-of-service weakness in affected servers. The patch was the most severe of 14 released yesterday by OpenSSL. OCSP is an alternative in many cases to Certificate Revocation Lists where a client can use the protocol to ping a server requesting the status of a digital certificate. The vulnerability, CVE-2016-6304, can be exploited by a malicious client by sending a large OCSP Status Request extension. u201cIf that client continually requests renegotiation, sending a large OCSP Status Request extension each time, then there will be unbounded memory growth on the server,u201d OpenSSL said in its advisory. u201cThis will eventually lead to a denial of service attack through memory exhaustion.u201d Researchers from Qihoo 360 of China privately disclosed the vulnerability. u201cA server with default configuration would allow unbounded memory allocation of the OCSP ids every time a renegotiation occurs even if the server is not configured with OCSP,u201d Qihoo 360 said in its report on the bug. u201cThe OCSP id can, according to the spec, consume up to 65,535 bytes of memory. Theoretically, an attacker could continually reneg with the server thus causing unbounded memory growth on the server up to 64k each time.u201d The vulnerability affects default configurations of OpenSSL 1.1.0 and later; versions prior to 1.0.1g are not affected, OpenSSL said. OpenSSL 1.1.0 should be upgraded to 1.1.0a, 1.0.2 to 1.0.2i, and 1.0.1 to 1.0.1u. u201cIn 1.0.2 an attacker could grow the memory usage on the server by approx 16k per reneg as the maximum overall ClientHello size is set to 16,384 bytes,u201d Qihoo 360 said. u201cIn version 1.1.0, along with the maximum size of a ClientHello increased to 131,396 bytes, the memory growth would be near 64k per reneg.u201d Linux and BSD distributors Debian, Ubuntu, RedHat/CentOS and FreeBSD have also updated their respective software. Of the remaining 13 vulnerabilities, patched, 12 were rated low severity by OpenSSL. The other was rated moderate severity and could lead to a denial-of-service condition where SSL or TLS would hang during a SSL_peek() call if an empty record is sent. The bug affected OpenSSL 1.1.0 and users are urged to upgrade to 1.1.0a. OpenSSL also mitigated the SWEET32 vulnerability, CVE-2016-2183. Sweet32 was disclosed in August and affected 64-bit ciphers such as Triple-DES (3DES) and Blowfish and could allow an attacker to recover authentication cookie data from 3DES traffic, and usernames and passwords from OpenVPN traffic, which is secured by Blowfish. As expected, OpenSSL moved 64-bit ciphers from the high cipherstring group to medium in OpenSSL 1.0.1 and 1.0.2. OpenSSL 1.1.0 disables these ciphersuites by default. The attack is a collision attack against these ciphers in CBC mode, or cipher block chaining; 64-bit ciphers are still supported in TLS, IPsec, SSH and other protocols. The researchers said that 3DES support for HTTPS servers that show in Alexau2019s top website list hovers between 1 percent and 2 percent of traffic on Firefox, Internet Explorer, Chrome and Android 5.0 integrated browser. SWEET32 is one of the first relatively practical attacks against 64-bit suites, and can be executed with the resources at the disposal of a nation-state or well stocked criminal enterprise. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837226cefc42b00294937" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Latest Ubuntu Update Includes OpenSSL Fixes", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/latest-ubuntu-update-includes-openssl-fixes/123513/", "Date" : "February 1, 2017 , 2:50 pm", "Article" : "Ubuntu users are being urged to update theiru00a0operating systems to address a handful of recently patched OpenSSL vulnerabilities whichu00a0affect Ubuntu and its derivatives. Developers with Canonical, the company thatu00a0oversees the Linux distribution, announced the updates on Tuesday, encouraging users to install the latest OpenSSL package versions depending on which distribution theyu2019re running. The updates resolve several of the vulnerabilities fixed by the cryptographic library OpenSSL last Thursday. Three of the vulnerabilities fixed were branded u201cmediumu201d severity by OpenSSLu2019s maintainers as they could lead to several outcomes, including a timing attack, a denial of service attack, and help an attacker potentially recover private keys. One issue (CVE-2016-7056) was tied to the fact that OpenSSL didnu2019t properly use constant-time operations when it performed Elliptic Curve DSA (ECDSA) with a Curve P-256 signing. Because of this, at least on Ubuntu 12.04 LTS and Ubuntu 14.04, an attacker could have performed a timing attack to recover private keys. OpenSSL maintainers said last week when it pushed the updates that achieving such an attack would be difficult, however. u201cAnalysis suggests that attacks against RSA and DSA as a result of this defect would be very difficult to perform and are not believed likely,u201d OpenSSL said, u201cThe amount of resources required for such an attack would be very significant and likely only accessible to a limited number of attackers. An attacker would additionally need online access to an unpatched system using the target private key in a scenario with persistent DH parameters and a private key that is shared between multiple clients. It was discovered that the library also mishandled select truncated packets, something that could have been exploited to cause a denial of service condition. It also incorrectly performed something called the x86_64 Montgomery squaring procedure, a component that also could have been taken advantage to steal private keys. The issue only affects systems based on x86_64 architecture, like Ubuntu 16.04 LTS, and Ubuntu 16.10, however. The rest of the fixes were relatively small potatoes and all marked u201clowu201d severity. Another separate, less pressing issue (CVE-2016-7055) also affected how OpenSSL handles Montgomery multiplication and could lead to what Ubuntu calls u201ctransient failures.u201d The update also fixes an issue in which OpenSSL used u201cundefined behavior when performing pointer arithmetic,u201d and another in which it incorrect handled certain warning alerts. A remote attacker could exploit both vulnerabilities and cause a denial of service, according to Ubuntuu2019s advisory. Ubuntu 16.10, Ubuntu, 16.04 LTS, Ubuntu 14.04, LTS Ubuntu, 12.04 LTS are all considered vulnerable under updated, the advisory warns. The OpenSSL patches came just days after news surfaced that despite being patched three years ago, almost 200,000 servers and devices are still vulnerable to Heartbleed. The numbers came via analysis gathered byu00a0the search engine Shodan, a service that searches open ports for vulnerabilities. According to the report roughly 52,000 Apache HTTPD servers remain vulnerable, in addition to 6,380 Amazon Web Services devices, and 4,330 Verizon Wireless devices. The encryption library is used in a slew of devices and software; itu2019s up to each vendor whenu00a0it wants to patch vulnerabilities however. Cisco issued a security advisory around the vulnerabilities on Monday as many of its products incorporate OpenSSL packages. The company is unclear exactly which software is affected by the vulnerabilities but says its conducting an investigation into nearly 200 different products to determine whether theyu2019re affected. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837256cefc42b0029493d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Fixes Vulnerabilities Across OS X, iOS, Safari", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/apple-fixes-vulnerabilities-across-os-x-ios-safari/119351/", "Date" : "July 19, 2016 , 8:16 am", "Article" : "Apple fixed dozens of vulnerabilities inu00a0its softwareu00a0on Monday, including 60 vulnerabilities in its operating system, OS X, and 43 in its mobile operating system, iOS. The OS Xu00a0update graduatesu00a0theu00a0desktop and server operating system to OS X El Capitan v10.11.6 and applies to anyone running OS X Mavericks v10.9.5, OS X Yosemite v10.10.5, or OS X El Capitan v10.11. Theu00a0updates mostly fix a number of glitches and bugs under the hood of the OS. Asu00a0usual, the bulk of them apply to software libraries like OpenSSL, LibreSSL, and libxml2. Apple updated each library to their most recent versions to mitigate the issues. Meanwhile 21 of the vulnerabilities could lead to arbitrary code execution, six with kernel privileges, and two that could go on and lead to the compromise of user information. Seven vulnerabilities u2013 each one of them dug up by Ke Liu, of Tencentu2019s Xuanwu Lab u2013 exist in Quicktime. The bugs mostly stem from memory corruption issues and could allow malicious images to trigger code execution. A nasty issue with libc++abi u2013 an implementation for a C++ library, was patched that could have allowed an app to execute arbitrary code with root privileges. The update also fixed an issue with Safariu2019s Login Autofill feature that could have revealed a usersu2019 password on screen. An interesting bug involving Facetime was fixed in both OS X and iOS that could have allowed an attacker in a privileged network positionu00a0to get a relayed call to continue transmitting audio byu00a0tricking a user into thinking the call had been terminated. According to Appleu2019s advisory, u201cuser interface inconsistenciesu201d existed when Facetime was handling relayed calls. Apple claims it fixed the issue through improved display logic. Martin Vigo, a security engineer whou00a0spoke at Black Hat Europe last year,u00a0discovered the vulnerability. He acknowledged via Twitter Monday that he hasnu2019t publicly disclosed details around the bug yet because there are u201cother related vulnsu201d inu00a0Facetime that still need to be fixed by Apple.   The iOS update, iOS 9.3.3, fixes 43 vulnerabilities, including a bug in the Calendar app that could have been leveraged to cause a device to unexpectedly restart. Henry Feldman, an Assistant Professor of Medicine at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, who alsou00a0runs the software development team for the hospitalu2019s Division of Clinical Informatics discovered the bug could be caused by a malicious calendar invite. Bugs that affect Siri have been a dime a dozen since the personal assistantu2019s inception. The latest, discovered by au00a0researcher in Portugal could have allowed anyone with physical access to someoneu2019s device to see private contact information. Apple fixed the issue, which stemmed fromu00a0the way Siri handles Contact cards, through what it calls improved state management. Aside from the Calendar app bug and the Siri bug, most of the iOS bugs, 12 in total, affect WebKit and could result in the exfiltration of data cross-origin, script execution, interface spoofing, and the disclosure of process memory, to name a few outcomes. As WebKit is the web browser engine used by Safari, the same 12 bugs fixedu00a0inu00a0the iOS update are also fixed by the Safari update, which updates the browser to version 9.1.2. As it usually does, Apple used the opportunity to releaseu00a0updatesu00a0for both its watchOS and tvOS operating systems, along with iTunes.u00a0The iTunes update only applies to Windows 7 users and updatesu00a0the media player to version 12.4.2. The updates are likely some of the last both OS X and iOS will receive in the near future as the companyu00a0has its hands full readying new versions, iOS 10 and macOS Sierra, for release later this fall. Apple released the third beta of of both iOS 10 and macOS Sierrau00a0to developers and public beta testers on Monday, as well. Apple announced both operating systems in June at its Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco. macOS in particular is expected tou00a0include updates to Gatekeeper, and a new file system that includes native support for encryption. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837466cefc42b00294960" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patches High-Severity Denial-of-Service Bug", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-patches-high-severity-denial-of-service-bug/121913/", "Date" : "November 11, 2016 , 7:00 am", "Article" : "OpenSSL on Thursday patched three vulnerabilities in its latest update, and reminded users running version 1.0.1 of the cryptographic library that that security support will end Dec. 31. Of the three bugs, only one was rated high severity and could lead to OpenSSL crashes. Only OpenSSL 1.1.0 is affected, earlier versions are not. Users should upgrade to OpenSSL 1.1.0c. The vulnerability was privately disclosed by Robert Swiecki, an information security engineer at Google. The flaw affects TLS connections using ChaCha20-Poly1305, OpenSSL said; ChaCha20-Poly1305 is a ciphersuite in AEAD mode, and was recently standardized. u201cTLS connections using *-CHACHA20-POLY1305 ciphersuites are susceptible to a DoS attack by corrupting larger payloads. This can result in an OpenSSL crash,u201d OpenSSL said. u201cThis issue is not considered to be exploitable beyond a DoS.u201d Rich Salz, a member of the OpenSSL development team, said the vulnerability was a pointer miscalculation. u201cSo the wrong part of a message buffer was zeroed,u201d Salz said. u201cThe only thing likely to happen was a server-side crash.u201d OpenSSL also patched a moderate severity vulnerability in the libraryu2019s handling of the ASN.1 Choice type. u201cApplications parsing invalid CMS structures can crash with a NULL pointer dereference. This is caused by a bug in the handling of the ASN.1 CHOICE type in OpenSSL 1.1.0 which can result in a NULL value being passed to the structure callback if an attempt is made to free certain invalid encodings,u201dOpenSSL said. u201cOnly CHOICE structures using a callback which do not handle NULL value are affected.u201d This bug too affects only OpenSSL 1.1.0, and users should upgrade to 1.1.0c. The third vulnerability was rated low severity, and was found in the Broadwell-specific Montgomery multiplication procedure that handles input divisible by, but longer than, 256 bits, OpenSSL said. RSA, DSA and Diffie-Hellman keys are not exposed in these attacks, OpenSSL, said. u201cThis is because the subroutine in question is not used in operations with the private key itself and an input of the attackeru2019s direct choice,u201d OpenSSL said. u201cOtherwise the bug can manifest itself as transient authentication and key negotiation failures or reproducible erroneous outcome of public-key operations with specially crafted input.u201d The Brainpool P-512 elliptic curve is affected by this vulnerability, and OpenSSL said ECDH key negotiations can be attacked. u201cImpact was not analyzed in detail, because pre-requisites for attack are considered unlikely,u201d OpenSSL said. u201cNamely multiple clients have to choose the curve in question and the server has to share the private key among them, neither of which is default behaviour. Even then only clients that chose the curve will be affected.u201d Versions prior to OpenSSL 1.0.2 are not affected, and because this is a low-severity bug, a new release is not available, OpenSSL said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38374e6cefc42b00294970" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Deluge of Apple Patches Fix iMessage Crypto Bug, Much More", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/deluge-of-apple-patches-fix-imessage-crypto-bug-much-more/116926/", "Date" : "March 22, 2016 , 11:28 am", "Article" : "In addition to fixing the serious crypto vulnerabilities in iMessage that surfacedu00a0yesterday, Apple also deployed patches for nearly all of its products, including Safari, OS X, iOS, Apple TVu2019s tvOS, and watchOS. The iOS update, 9.3, is arguably the most pressing given the cryptographic issue dug up by researchers at Johns Hopkins University, but it also fixes a slew of other bugs. Nine memory corruption issues that existu00a0in many of the operating systemu2019s kernels and parsers were addressed, while a handful of other issues, such asu00a0use-after-free, denial of service, and out of bounds bugs were also fixed. Only one issue, a series of vulnerabilities in HTTPProtocol, could have led to remote code execution. 9.3 also fixes an issue in WebKit dug up by four scholars at Newcastle University in the UK. Maryam Mehrnezhad, Ehsan Toreini, Siamak F. Shahandashti, and Feng Hao from the universityu2019s School of Computing Science discovered that a hidden web page could track user information and u201cdevice-motion data.u201d Apple fixed the issue by suspending the availability of that data. Yesterday also broughtu00a0fixes for a dozen issues in Safari, seven involvingu00a0WebKit. Issues in the web browser engine couldu2019ve led to a few outcomes, including interface spoofing, data exfiltration, and unexpected crashes. A researcher at Dropbox, Devdatta Akhawe, discovered a bug similar to the one dug up by the Newcastle students that was also remedied. Akhawe found that the way Safari handled attachment URLs couldu2019ve let a site track user information. Apple fixed the issue throughu00a0improved URL handling.u00a0A separate issue identified by researchers with Tencentu2019s Xuanwu Lab was also fixed that stemmed from the way geolocation requests were parsed. Before the fix, if a user navigated to a malicious website the browser couldu2019ve given away a useru2019s location. Absent from the update are fixes foru00a0vulnerabilities in Safari highlighted at this yearu2019su00a0Pwn2Own hacking competition last week in Vancouver. Itu2019su00a0expected Apple will address those bugs, which escalated privileges and gave hackers root level access, in a future release. The OS X update, which graduates the operating system to El Capitan v10.11.4, fixes 59 bugs in total. 15 of the vulnerabilities could have let an application execute arbitrary code u2013 a dozen with kernel privileges. A dozen more could have simply led to code execution. The bulk of the fixes apply to ubiquitousu00a0utilities like OpenSSH and OpenSSL, software like Python and Quicktime, and other assorted drivers, since OS X also runs Messages, theu00a0update resolves the same cryptographic, certificate pinning issue that the iOS update fixed. More than 30 issues in watchOS u2013 updating the operating system to 2.2 u2013 and eight issues in tvOS u2013 updating the operating system to 9.1.1 u2013 were addressed yesterday as well.u00a0Several bugs, like a memory corruption issue Joshua Drake and Nikias Bassen of Zimperium zLabs discovered in syslog, affected both watchOS and tvOS, as both operating systems share some of the same libraries and kernel extensions. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837616cefc42b00294994" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Heartbleed Persists on 200,000 Servers, Devices", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/heartbleed-persists-on-200000-servers-devices/123253/", "Date" : "January 23, 2017 , 1:31 pm", "Article" : "Almost 200,000 servers and devicesu00a0are still vulnerable to Heartbleed, the OpenSSL flawu00a0patched nearly three years ago. The numbers come from search engine Shodan, which released data showing U.S. servers hosted on Amazon AWS are disproportionately vulnerable to the flaw. u201cThereu2019s a lot to be worried about with this data, but also a lot thatu2019s unsurprising,u201d said Tim Jarrett senior director of security, Veracode. The Shodan analysis released over the weekend is part of the search engineu2019s Heartbleed Report (2017-01). It paints a gloomy picture when it comes to Heartbleed mitigation. The report indicates that almost 52,000 Apache HTTPD servers remain vulnerable and exposed to the internet, in particular versions 2.2.22 and 2.2.15. Amazon Web Services hosts the highest number of vulnerable devices (6,380), followed byu00a0Verizon Wireless (4,330) and German-based ISP Cronon AG (2,290).  u201cThe initial media blizzard for Heartbleed helped secure hundreds of thousands of devices (from 600,000 down to 200,000) but the subsequent follow-up has been lackluster as the problem keeps lingering,u201d said John Matherly, Shodan founder. He points out that the vast majority of affected services actually support TLSv1.2. u201cThis means they support good encryption, unfortunately their dependencies are old,u201d he said. Heartbleed was an internet-wide bug that in 2014 affected millions of Linux, UNIX and Apple machines running vulnerable versions of the OpenSSL library. The Heartbleed vulnerability can result in the revelation of 64 KB of memory to any client or server that is connected. In April of 2014, fixes for versions of OpenSSL were quickly pushed out. u201cMost Heartbleed vulnerabilities are reported in the U.S. This makes sense given the prevalence of web applications hosted in Amazon AWS and Verizon as well as other US-based ISPs,u201d Jarrett said.  He said part of the issue is that itu2019s easy to create new servers in AWS that donu2019t enforce the same type of safety provisions as they once required. u201cWhat used to require a sysadmin and a capital expenditure can now be done with a few lines of code. And we know that both real and virtual servers are easy to forget about, particularly when created outside of normal IT processes. So itu2019s unsurprising that some of these u2018forgotten serversu2019 are unpatched and dangerous,u201d Jarrett said. The Shodan data shows the overwhelming impacted services are HTTPS with 148,420 vulnerable servers followed by HTTPS (port 8443) with 23,600 servers and then Webmin, the sys admin interface for Unix (5,970). " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38377a6cefc42b002949bf" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Android KeyStore Encryption Scheme Broken, Researchers Say", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/android-keystore-encryption-scheme-broken-researchers-say/119092/", "Date" : "July 7, 2016 , 11:52 am", "Article" : "The default implementation for KeyStore, the system in Android designed to store user credentials and cryptographic keys, is broken, researchers say. In a an academic paper published this week, researchers argue that the particular encryption scheme that KeyStore uses fails to protect theu00a0integrity of keys and could be exploited to allow an attacker to modify stored keys through a forgery attack. KeyStore, which performs key-specific actions through the OpenSSL library, allows Android apps to store and generate their own cryptographic keys. By storing keys in a container, KeyStore makes it more difficult to remove themu00a0from the device. Mohamed Sabt and Jacques Traoru00e9, two researchers with the French telecom Orange Labs, claim the scheme associated with the system is u201cnon-provably secure,u201d and could have u201csevere consequences.u201d The two point out in their paper u201cBreaking Into the KeyStore: A Practical Forgery Attack Against Android KeyStore,u201d that itu2019s the hash-then-encrypt (HtE) authenticated encryption (AE) scheme in cipher block chaining mode (CBC) in KeyStore that fails to guarantee the integrity of keys. In a forgery attack, an attacker could exploit the weakness to reduce the length of symmetric keys protected by the system. The crux of the attack is based around tricking a victim into installing a malicious app on the device that can be granted read-write permission on the KeyStore directory. For instance, if an attacker got an application to trust its symmetric key and transform 256-bit HMAC keys into 32-bit ones, a third party that controls the network could break any protocol based on the weak keys. The attack u201clulls users into a false sense of securityu201d by transforming the keys, undetected, the researchers say. u201cThe purpose of the forgery attack is that given a ciphertext of a symmetric key, the adversary can fabricate another ciphertext that decrypts to a shorter key,u201d theu00a0paper reads. When the app asks KeyStore to generate a cryptographic hash function, or HMAC tag, over each message, KeyStore returns a weak key. Since the system refuses to store weak, short keys, itu2019s easy for a party to modify the content of those messages before forwarding them to a server. Sabt broke down the scenario for Threatpost in laymanu2019s terms on Wednesday: Sabt understands why some may question the practicality of the attack; after all, a user would have to agree to install an app that requires KeyStore read/write permissions. What makes it an interesting attack, Sabt claims, is that in principle Android restricts access to the folder, meaningu00a0only the KeyStore user is allowed to see or modify its contents. u201cThe success of our attack depends on how likely the malicious application is to bypass the access control mechanisms of Android,u201d the two say, adding that this could be done by executing arbitrary code, through code injection or reuse, or obtaining root or kernel-level privileges. According to the paper, the researchers have been able to carry out their attack on the latest Android build, android-6.0.1_r22 and that to their knowledge, itu2019s the first cryptanalysis-based attack against KeyStore. u201cIntuition often goes wrong when security is concerned,u201d the two write, u201cUnfortunately, system designers still tend to choose cryptographic schemes not for their proved security but for their apparent simplicity. We show, once again, that this is not a good choice, since it usually results in severe consequences for the whole underlying system.u201d The researchers caution the scenario is only an example, but stress a new u201cclass of threatu201d could stem from the attack. u201cIn the paper, I only described one scenario exploiting the vulnerability concerning the KeyStore AE encryption,u201d Sabt told Threatpost, u201cHowever, experience shows that such vulnerabilities could be exploited in unexpected ways years after being discovered.u201d Sabt, a PhD candidate working at Orange Labs and Traoru00e9, a research engineer at Orange Labs, plan to present their research in Greece in September at ESORICS, the European Symposium on Research in Computer Security. The two disclosed their research to Google in January and while the Android security team acknowledged the attack and confirmed the encryption scheme is slated for removal, Sabt claims that he hasnu2019t received an update from the team when exactly the fix will come. The two recommend that system designers keep the hash-then-encrypt scheme but use it with another encryption mode, working alongside cryptographers to find the best option. u201cA key lesson from this paper is that cryptographers and system designers must work closely together,u201d Sabt andu00a0Traoru00e9 write, u201cBridging the perilous gap that separates these communities will be essential for keeping future systems secure.u201d Like many Android systems, KeyStore does receive periodic updates from Google. Last year the company patched a privilege escalation vulnerability in the system that could have been abused if a malicious app called on a specific API in the system, something that couldu2019ve led to memory corruption and code execution.u00a0In 2014, researchers fixed a nasty stack-based buffer overflow in KeyStore that affected most Android users. An attacker could haveu00a0exploited the vulnerability in Android 4.3 and earlier devices to gain access to a deviceu2019s lock credentials, encrypted and decrypted master keys, and so on. While Google has updated KeyStore with new features recently, Sabt and Traoru00e9 claim the company hasnu2019t reviewed the systemu2019s u201csecurity correctnessu201d and argue u00a0that security by u201cfeature-enhancing is disappointedly misleading.u201d u201cSecurity in modern systems still does not withstand a simple cryptanalysis,u201d the two say, u201cOur attack demonstrates that any theoretical weakness concerning the security of a cryptographic scheme could be utilized to break the whole system.u201d Researchers discovered a flaw in a popular mobile processor used in Android devices last week. Researcher Gal Beniamini described how the encryption in devices running Qualcomm chips, more than half of Android devices currently in use, can be bypassed. The KeyMaster module, a layer inside KeyStore designed to protect keys from extraction, is dependent on an environment powered by Qualcomm. In a write up, corroborated by Duo Security, Beniamini claimed attackers can reverse engineer code used by both. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837816cefc42b002949c7" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Android Security Bulletin Features Two Patch Levels", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/android-security-bulletin-features-two-patch-levels/119056/", "Date" : "July 6, 2016 , 2:00 pm", "Article" : "The frail world of the Android ecosystem has taken some hits in the past week with the disclosure of a full disk encryption bypass vulnerability and the arrival of the HummingBad malware. The FDE bypass highlighted the need to keep Android patch levels current, but as Duo Labs statistics point out, that remains a struggle for Android users who must rely on carriers and handset makers to integrate and distribute Google updates. The latest Android Security Bulletin, released today, provides little relief. Itu2019s a sizable updateu2014late by nearly a week because of the July 4 U.S. holidayu2014but contains fixes for problems in a host of familiar areas including Mediaserver and a number of Qualcomm, MediaTek and NVIDIA components that have been featured in almost every bulletin since the monthly releases started last August. Patches were released to carrier and handset manufacturer partners on June 6, and Google expects source code patches to be available on the Android Open Source Project within 48 hours. Google points out that there are two security patch level strings in todayu2019s bulletin: July 1 and July 5. u201cThis bulletin has two security patch level strings in order to provide Android partners with the flexibility to move more quickly to fix a subset of vulnerabilities that are similar across all Android devices,u201d Google said. u201cAndroid partners are encouraged to fix all issues in this bulletin and use the latest security patch level string.u201d The July 1 patch level may include a subset of patches that are available in the July 5 patch level, which is complete. The most serious vulnerabilities are seven remote code execution flaws in Mediaserver, which are included in the July 1 patch level; July 1 also patches a critical remote code execution vulnerability in OpenSSL and Boring SSL (CVE-2016-2108). The July 5 patch level, meanwhile, patches a dozen critical elevation of privilege flaws, including a six in MediaTek drivers including the Wi-Fi driver on specific devices, as well as two in the Qualcomm GPU driver, another in the Qualcomm performance component, and one in the NVIDIA video driver. The July 5 patch level also addresses a flaw in the kernel file system (CVE-2016-3775) and in the USB driver (CVE-2015-8816). The issue of prompt Android patching has caught the attention of the U.S. government, which in May through the Federal Trade Commission and Federal Communications Commission sent letters to leading device makers and carriers seeking details on their respective security update practices. u201cConsumers may be left unprotected, for long periods of time or even indefinitely, by any delays in patching vulnerabilities once they are discovered. Therefore, we appreciate efforts made by operating system providers, original equipment manufacturers, and mobile service providers to respond quickly to address vulnerabilities as they arise,u201d said Jon Wilkins, chief of the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau at the FCC in one of the letters. u201cWe are concerned, however, that there are significant delays in delivering patches to actual devicesu2014and that older devices may never be patched.u201d Successful exploits against the full disk encryption bypass vulnerability disclosed last week require chaining together of an older, patched Mediaserver vulnerability. Duo Labs said last week that it estimates 57 percent of Android phones are still vulnerable to related Mediaserver attacks. u201cCompared to 60 percent of Android phones that were vulnerable to the Android attack in January, the security posture of our dataset has improved slightly, with 57 percent of Android phones vulnerable to the latest attack,u201d according to a Duo Labs blog post. Todayu2019s Android Security Bulletin also patched dozens of vulnerabilities rated High severity, including a remote code execution flaw in Bluetooth in the July 1 patch level and many elevation of privilege and information disclosure flaws in Mediaserver, OpenSSL, libpng, LockSettings Service, ChooserTarget service. The July 5 patch level includes patches for high-severity elevation of privilege vulnerabilities in Qualcomm USB, Wi-Fi and camera drivers, NVIDIA camera drivers, MediaTech power, display, Wi-Fi-hardware sensor, video and GPS drivers, as well as in the kernel file system, serial peripheral interface driver and networking components. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38379e6cefc42b002949f7" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Linux Foundation Badge Program to Boost Open Source Security", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/linux-foundation-badge-program-to-boost-open-source-security/117799/", "Date" : "May 3, 2016 , 2:01 pm", "Article" : "The Linux Foundation says a new Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII) Best Practices Badge program launched Tuesday will help companies interested in adopting open source technologies evaluate projects based on security, quality and stability. Theu00a0CII Best Practices Badge does not issue certificates nor validate open source projects. Instead, CII is a platform for open source projects such as OpenSSL, Node.js, and GitLab to self-disclose critical aspects of their projects. Linux Foundationu2019s CTO Nicko van Someren told Threatpost the badge program is a first of its kind for the open source community and offers a free alternative to costly commercial offerings by companies such as Corsec Security and its Common Criteria certification that can cost upwards ofu00a0$100,000. u201cOutwardly, this is a great way for project developers to be more transparent and methodical about how their solutions meet agreed upon software benchmarks,u201d Someren said. A CII Best Practices Badge, he said, removes doubt when it comes to understanding if an open source project is secure or stable enough for real-time adoption within businesses. The CII badge program will be equally useful for open source developers, Someren said. u201cDevelopers will be able to use this program to educate on security best practices and provide a directory for developers and CIOs to understand what projects have an understanding and methodology that focuses on security,u201d he said. The Linux Foundation has already announced inaugural badge holders that include Curl, GitLab, the Linux kernel, OpenBlox, OpenSSL, Node.js and Zephyr. The CII website will act as a searchable repository for open source projects allowing you to easily find a project and see if it is u201cpassingu201d or u201cfailingu201d to meet CII best practices. For example, an OpenSSL CII badge entry before the Heartbleed vulnerability was patched, would have beenu00a0u201cfailing.u201d OpenSSL users can see from the OpenSSL CII website entry that includes basic, quality and security information about the projectu2019s status. The CII online badge entries will red-flag issues until the project developers fix the problems. OpenSSLu2019s current status is u201cpassingu201d with no reported security issues. Someren said if this type of best practices badge would haveu00a0existed prior to the massive Heartbleed outbreak, it could have possibly been avoided. u201cBetter internal and external oversight of open source projects can only be beneficial when it comes to security and reliability,u201d he said. Core Infrastructure Initiative was created in April 2014 in the wake of Heartbleed. CII is made up of a group of leading IT companies that work together to identify critical open source projects and help fund them. Someren stresses that the CII Best Practices Badge program is also an open project. u201cIf you donu2019t like the criteria, you are part of the community and can change it,u201d he said. Project leaders themselves will be responsible for self-reporting. Program backers say a unifying open source badge program is needed as a growing number of source projects are being adopted by the likes of Facebook, Microsoft and Google for critical infrastructure u2013 such as OpenSSL. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837a26cefc42b002949fd" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patches Two High-Severity Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-patches-two-high-severity-vulnerabilities/117792/", "Date" : "May 3, 2016 , 12:17 pm", "Article" : "The latest batch of OpenSSL security patches were released today, with a pair of high-severity flawsu00a0and four low-severity issues addressed in OpenSSL 1.0.1t and OpenSSL 1.0.2h. One of the high-severity flaws, CVE-2016-2107, opens the door to a padding oracle attack that can allow for the decryption of traffic if the connection uses an AES CBC cipher and the server supports AES-NI. u201cThe AES issue is interesting.u00a0If you can [man-in-the-middle] then you can inject packets, look at the error codes, and then eventually decrypt traffic,u201d said Rich Salz, a member of the OpenSSL development team and an engineer at Akamai. u201cSo itu2019s for national-scale attackers who can force DNS or BGP routes, or small hackers who can hack Wi-Fi in Starbucks.u201d OpenSSL said in its advisory that this issue was part of a fix for the Lucky 13 padding attacks of 2013. Lucky 13 is a side-channel crypto attack against TLS, specifically the message authentication code stage of TLS implementations. u201cThe padding check was rewritten to be in constant time by making sure that always the same bytes are read and compared against either the MAC or padding bytes,u201d OpenSSL said in its advisory. u201cBut it no longer checked that there was enough data to have both the MAC and padding bytes.u201d The second high-severity issue is a memory corruption vulnerability in the ASN.1 encoder used in OpenSSL. Only versions prior to April 2015 are affected, OpenSSL said; the flaw was patched April 18, 2015 and released last June. u201cThe other [high severity] bug was fixed a year ago, but nobody saw the security impact,u201d Salz said.u00a0u201cIf vendors just picked up our fixes, weu2019d be all set.u201d In its advisory, OpenSSL explained that the vulnerability by itself does not pose a security issue, but if combined with a second and unrelated bug in the ASN.1 parser, could result in a buffer overflow. From the advisory: u201cA second, independent bug revealed that the ASN.1 parser (specifically, d2i_ASN1_TYPE) can misinterpret a large universal tag as a negative zero value. Large universal tags are not present in any common ASN.1 structures (such as X509) but are accepted as part of ANY structures. Therefore, if an application deserializes untrusted ASN.1 structures containing an ANY field, and later reserializes them, an attacker may be able to trigger an out-of-bounds write. This has been shown to cause memory corruption that is potentially exploitable with some malloc implementations.u201d OpenSSL said OpenSSL 1.0.2c and 1.0.1o address this vulnerability. OpenSSL today also patched two overflow vulnerabilities in the EVP_EncodeUpdate () function. An attacker could input a large amount of data causing a heap corruption in both cases. There are limitations in both cases that minimize the security impact of successful exploits of both situations, OpenSSL said. The remaining low-severity vulnerabilities are in the ASN.1 BIO and in the X509_NAME_oneline() function in EBCDIC systems, resulting memory exhaustion and arbitrary stack data returned in the buffer, respectively. OpenSSL also reminds users that security supportu00a0for version 1.0.1 ends on Dec. 31; support for 0.9.8 and 1.0.0 ended last December. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837b36cefc42b00294a1c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Joomla Update Fixes Two Critical Issues, 2FA Error", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/joomla-update-fixes-two-critical-issues-2fa-error/121577/", "Date" : "October 26, 2016 , 2:19 pm", "Article" : "Web developers who run the content management system Joomla! are strongly encouraged to update their sites immediately. The company on Tuesday pushed out the most recent version of the CMS, 3.6.4, fixing two critical issues that can lead to account creation and elevated privileges, according to a release update published by the Joomla! Project.  Both issues, which the company branded as high severity, were discovered earlier this month and affect versions 3.4.4 through 3.6.3. Because of inadequate checks, the account creation bug could allow a user to register as a new user when their registration has been disabled. The elevated privileges bug also tangentially deals with registration. Because of what Joomla! refers to as u201cincorrectly used unfiltered data,u201d a new user could register on the site and be granted elevated privileges. The update also remedies a two-factor authentication error that started popping up in the CMS last week. On Oct. 18, following the release of the previous version, 3.6.3, a handful of users who use 2FA reported on Joomlau2019s Github pageu00a0being locked out of their websites. Users claim they were met with u201cMust match character setu201d error notifications and forced to remove 2FA via their site databases in order to gain access. The problem stemmed from the fact that Joomla recently upgraded to a new version of FOF, or Framework on Framework, a third party rapid application development framework for the CMS. The CMS was using FOFEncryptAesMcrypt butu00a0moved to FOFEncryptAesOpenssl with the update, making the Mcrypt keys of users invalid. In a pull request on Github, Robert Deutz, part of Joomlau2019s Production Leadership Team, said Joomla fixed the issue and nowu00a0converts data to OpenSSL if itu2019s crypted with Mcrypt. According to researchers with Sucuri, who looked into the issues on Wednesday, exploits for the vulnerabilities have been spotted in the wild. Marc-Alexandre Montpas, a security researcher at the firm, looked at the code and crafted an exploit to test the companyu2019s firewall. Montpas determined that an attacker could use the arbitrary account creation bug to override properties, like any groups a user may belong to; manager, author, admin, and so on. From there, itu2019s a short path to code execution. u201cAs administrators can install extension packages on their site, an attacker could use his freshly hacked administrator account to upload a remote shell on the site and further compromise the server,u201d Montpas warned. This story was updated on Thursday, October 27 with statements and information from Sucuri. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837ba6cefc42b00294a27" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Adobe Patches Flash Zero Day Under Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/adobe-patches-flash-zero-day-under-attack/121567/", "Date" : "October 26, 2016 , 11:24 am", "Article" : "Adobe today released an emergency Flash Player update that includes a patch for a vulnerability being exploited in targeted attacks. The vulnerability, CVE-2016-7855, was privately disclosed by Neel Mehta and Billy Leonard of the Google Threat Analysis Group. Mehta was one of four researchers credited with finding and disclosing in 2014 the Heartbleed vulnerability. Heartbleed was one of a string of Internet-wide vulnerabilities that was disclosed in 2014 and 2015; it was found in OpenSSL and allowed an attacker to read memory from encrypted sessions. Adobe said it had no insight into the targeted attacks abusing the Flash zero day; a request for comment from Mehta was not returned in time for publication. u201cAdobe is aware of a report that an exploit for CVE-2016-7855 exists in the wild, and is being used in limited, targeted attacks against users running Windows versions 7, 8.1 and 10,u201d Adobe said in its advisory. The vulnerability affects Windows, Linux and Mac desktop versions of Flash 23.0.0.185 and earlier, as well as Flash Player for Google Chrome, and Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer on Windows 10 and 8.1. Adobe said the flaw is a use-after-free vulnerability, and that users should update to version 23.0.0.205 on all platforms. Use-after-free vulnerabilities are memory corruption issues that expose systems to code execution. Attackers exploit these vulnerabilities by attempting to access memory after it has been freed; attacks can result in a system crash or code execution. Adobe has updated Flash numerous times this year, including monthly releases every month this year save for August. Todayu2019s emergency release is the fourth such update this year; Adobe also patched zero days under attack in April, May and June. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837e36cefc42b00294a6d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Oracle Fixes 253 Vulnerabilities in Last CPU of 2016", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/oracle-fixes-253-vulnerabilities-in-last-cpu-of-2016/121375/", "Date" : "October 19, 2016 , 1:39 pm", "Article" : "Oracle fixed 253 vulnerabilities across 76 product lines on Tuesday as part of itsu00a0quarterly Critical Patch Update. Many of the fixes addressed by Oracle tackled vulnerabilities tied to securing critical enterprise data. Vulnerabilities in Oracle Fusion Middleware, a family of infrastructure products the company develops, are some of the most pressing. The update addresses 29 vulnerabilities in the software, 19 of which can be exploited remotely without authentication. Five of those vulnerabilities fetch a CVSS score of 9.8, the highest rating any vulnerabilities fixed this time around garnered. Each of the vulnerabilities could lead to the takeover of components in theu00a0affected software, in this case Oracle Big Data Discovery and Oracle WebLogic Server. In addition to Fusion Middleware, three other vulnerabilities, in Oracleu2019s Commerce Platform, and two retail apps u2013 its Retail Customer Insights, and Retail Merchandising Insights u2013 also contained critical, remotely exploitable vulnerabilities. While Fusion Middleware may have had the most critical vulnerabilities it didnu2019t have the most overall. Oracleu2019s Communications Applications, which had 36 vulnerabilities, 31 of which were remotely exploitable, and Oracleu2019s MySQL, which had 31 vulnerabilities, two which were remotely exploitable, were the most patched pieces of software on Tuesday. Java, Oracleu2019s perennial whipping boy, didnu2019t emerge this quarter unscathed either. Tuesdayu2019s update fixed seven vulnerabilities in Java SE, all which can be remotely exploited without authentication, three of which carry a CVSS of 9.6. The oldest bug, CVE-2010-5312, dates back to 2010 and exists in Application Express, a component in Oracleu2019s Database Server. That vulnerability, along with the 11 others fixed in Database Server, should also be on an end usersu2019 CPU docket, an expert warned. u201cAdministrators should plan on patching for CVE-2016-6304, CVE-2016-5598 and CVE-2010-5312 as they are remotely exploitable and attackers can use them after compromising another system on the network,u201d Amol Sarwarte, the director of Vulnerability Labs at Qualys, wrote on the companyu2019s blog Tuesday. Elsewhere, analysts with ERPScan, a firm that conducts audits on Oracle systems, are encouraging end users to pay attention to vulnerabilities patchedu00a0in Oracleu2019s E-Business Suite, especially one that stems from the way OpenSSL is implemented in Oracle HTTP Server. u201cThe vulnerability is assessed as critical and, according to Oracleu2019s advisory, allows unauthenticated attacker with network access via HTTP to compromise Oracle HTTP Server, which can result in complete DoS of the component,u201d Darya Maenkova, an analyst at the firm told Threatpost Tuesday. u201cERPScan researchers conducted a Shodan scan and revealed that approximately 15,000 Oracle HTTP servers are exposed to the Internet,u201d Maenkova said. Per usual, noted Oracle bug hunter David Litchfield uncovered a handful of the vulnerabilities fixed this week. Four of the vulnerabilities he found were of the SQL injection variety and existed in e-Business Suite 12.x and 11.x. The bugs, in utilities owned by both SYS and SYSTEM users, could lead to SQL execution, Litchfield warned in a .PDF document around the bugs published Wednesday. E-Business Suite, the main business software made by the company, is usually flush with sensitive processes and key data, meaning a compromise could lead to the theft of business critical information. Litchfield, a security engineer at Google, described earlier this summer how he found a litany of vulnerabilities, 50 in a week u2013 including cross-site scripting bugs and SQL injections, in the platform at Black Hat. u201cItu2019s a rich source of vulnerabilities,u201d Litchfield said during his talk, u201cThereu2019s a lot of juicy stuff an attacker would look at and like to break in.u201d Oracleu2019s products figure into almost countless business implementations worldwide. When Bangladesh Banku2019s SWIFT payment system was compromised in February, researchers at Bae Systems saidu00a0malware was operating in an Oracle-powered environment running SWIFTu2019s software. Litchfield said at DEFCON in 2011u00a0that an Oracle database hack was to blame for the Sony Playstation Network outage that April. With this weeku2019s update, the last of 2016, Oracle has fixed almost 1,000 vulnerabilities, 913 in total, in its products this year. Almost every update contained more than 200 fixes, almost twice the average number of fixes, 110, pushed out by the company from 2011 to 2015. Tuesdayu2019s update is the second largest issued by the company. Oracle set the record when it released its last CPU, fixing 276 vulnerabilities, in July this past summer. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837e66cefc42b00294a71" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "VeraCrypt Audit Under Way; Email Mystery Cleared Up", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/veracrypt-audit-under-way-email-mystery-cleared-up/119924/", "Date" : "August 16, 2016 , 2:27 pm", "Article" : "Updateu00a0To say the VeraCrypt audit, which begins today, got off to an inauspicious start would be an understatement. On Sunday, two weeks after the announcement that the open source file and disk encryption software would be formally scrutinized for security vulnerabilities, executives at one of the firms funding the audit posted a notice that four emails between the parties involved had been intercepted. u201cWe have now had a total of fouru00a0email messages disappear without a trace, stemming from multiple independent senders. Not only have the emails not arrived, but there is no trace of the emails in our u2018sentu2019 folders. In the case of OSTIF, this is the Google Apps business version of Gmail where these sent emails have disappeared,u201d the post to the Open Source Technology Improvement Fund (OSTIF) website read. u201cThis suggests that outside actors are attempting to listen in on and/or interfere with the audit process.u201d Today, Fred Raynal, CEO and founder of Quarkslab, the company hired to audit VeraCrypt, told Threatpost that wasnu2019t the case. u201cI think this news announcement was a mistake. I lost a message I sent to Mounir (Mounir Idrassi, VeraCryptu2019s lead developer) and Derek (Derek Zimmer, OSTIF CEO and president). They experienced similar issues, three times before that,u201d Raynal said. u201cThen Derek issued that statement but he should really not have done that. On my end, I am pretty sure it is a local problem on my computer between Mail.app and GPGMail.u201d VeraCrypt has been posited as an option for users looking for free file and disk encryption since the developers behind TrueCrypt closed up shop in 2014. VeraCrypt is a TrueCrypt fork (this happened in 2013), and since TrueCrypt went away, many of the vulnerabilities uncovered in its much-publicized audit and in the time since have been fixed in VeraCrypt, Idrassi said. Idrassi also told Threatpost that he accelerated plans to launch EFI system encryption this week so that it could be audited as well. u201cOf course, I welcome this audit. I think this is an important milestone for the project and its credibility,u201d Idrassi said. u201cThere were many calls in the past two years to organize such audit in order for users to have assurances about the changes introduced in VeraCrypt and I always answered that I will not be able to organize this without external help. So the fact that OSTIF was able to organize this is a positive step.u201d Raynal said that all new code introduced since the demise of TrueCrypt will be audited, along with a focus on EFI and disk encryption, and any newly implemented algorithms. u201cThis is by far the most important and critical feature compared to TrueCrypt,u201d Idrassi said of EFI encryption. u201cTrueCrypt only supported MBR system encryption, and with the advent of EFI, most users were unable to encrypt their machines using TrueCrypt or VeraCrypt. With the introduction of EFI support in VeraCrypt 1.18, system encryption will again be available to most users.u201d Some of other new features implemented in VeraCrypt since TrueCrypt, Idrassi said, include support for SHA-256 for Master Boot Record encryption, a mechanism that detects most evil-maid attacks in the MBR, additional compatibility for TrueCrypt volumes that allow for an easier transition to VeraCrypt, and a new feature called PIM, or Personal Iterations Multiplier, which enables the user to choose different security levels for volumes. u201cMany things changed in VeraCrypt since the official end of TrueCrypt,u201d Idrassi said. u201cMany security vulnerabilities were discovered in TrueCrypt and subsequently fixed in VeraCrypt. Also, several parts of TrueCrypt code were rewritten for robustness and to avoid security issues.u201d OSTIF said in its Aug. 1 announcement that Quarkslab is expected to wrap up in 30 days, by mid-September, and deliver its results to Idrassi; OSTIF said it will not have access to the results ahead of the public, and that it will publish the results once any vulnerabilities have been remediated. OSTIF said DuckDuckGo and VikingVPN also donated funds to the audit. Raynal said Quarkslab will use a French scheme in the assessment called CSPN, which was developed by Franceu2019s national security body ANSSI. He said that the level of funding provided allowed for this type of assessment, which he said generally takes between 30 and 35 days to complete. OSTIF did not respond to numerous requests for comment. OSTIFu2019s Zimmer said the fact that TrueCrypt has been audited allows for a narrower scope with the VeraCrypt audit, and the opportunity for financial savings. u201cThis allows us to instruct QuarksLab to focus their audit on code that was added or changed after TrueCrypt 7.1a and any residual impact that those changes have on existing code,u201d Zimmer said. u201cThe narrower scope of the audit allowed us to operate on a shorter timetable and therefore budget.u201d Zimmer said that in addition to VeraCrypt, OSTIF hoping to examine other open source packages, including OpenVPN, OpenSSL, GnuPG, and Off-The-Record (aka OTR)u00a0. u201cThe 30-day window (with the VeraCode audit) is due to budget constraints, and the narrowing of our focus to new and changed code,u201d Zimmer said. u201cWhen we move forward with other open-source projects, larger budgets will be required as some of these applications have never been audited before and thereu2019s a lot of legacy code laying around to be looked at.u201d Quarklabsu2019 Raynal said the threat model guiding the audit is primarily a stolen or lost laptop and whether an attacker could access the encrypted hard drive or volume. Raynal said the VeraCrypt driver will also be audited for vulnerabilities. u201cSince many fixes were already done in VeraCrypt, I donu2019t expect any new major findings, except maybe on the new EFI bootloader that didnu2019t exist in TrueCrypt and for which I will publish the source code today,u201d Idrassi said. u201cBut knowing the expertise of Quarkslab, it is possible that will come up with novel attack or vulnerability ideas.u201d This article was updated Aug. 17 with comments from OSTIF.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837fb6cefc42b00294a97" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Code Reuse a Peril for Secure Software Development", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/code-reuse-a-peril-for-secure-software-development/122476/", "Date" : "December 15, 2016 , 10:00 am", "Article" : "The amount of insecure software tied to reused third-party libraries and lingeringu00a0in applications long after patches have been deployed is staggering. Itu2019s a habitual problem perpetuated byu00a0developers failing to vet third-party code for vulnerabilities, and some repositoriesu00a0taking a hands-off approach with the code they host. This scenario allows attackers to target one overlooked component flaw used in millions of applications instead of focusing on a single application security vulnerability. The real-world consequences have been demonstrated in the past few years with the Heartbleed vulnerability in OpenSSL, Shellshock in GNU Bash, and a deserialization vulnerability exploited in a recent high-profile attack against the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency. These are three instancesu00a0where developers reuse libraries and frameworks that contain unpatched flaws in production applications. Security researchers at Veracode estimate that 97 percent of Java applications it tested included at least one component with at least one known software vulnerability. u201cThe problem isnu2019t limited to Java and isnu2019t just tied to obscure projects,u201d said Tim Jarrett senior director of security, Veracode. u201cPick your programming language.u201du00a0Gartner, meanwhile, estimates that by 2020, 99 percent of vulnerabilities exploited will be ones known by security and IT professionals for at least one year. Code Reuse Saves Time, Invites Bugs According to security experts, the problem is two-fold. On one hand, developers use reliable code that at a later date is found to have a vulnerability. Second, insecure code is used by a developer who doesnu2019t exercise due diligence on the software libraries used in their project. u201cTheyu2019ve heard the warnings and know the dangers, but for many developers open source and third-party components can be a double-edge sword u2013 saving time but opening the door to bugs,u201d said Derek Weeks, vice president and DevOps advocate at Sonatype. In an analysis of 25,000 applications, Sonatype found that sevenu00a0percent of components had at least one security defect tied to the use of an insecure software component. Repositories GitHub, Bitbucket, Python Package Index and NuGet Gallery are essential tools helping developers find pre-existing code that adds functionality for their software projects without having to reinventu00a0the wheel. Java application developers, for example, rely on pre-existing frameworks to handle encryption, visual elements and libraries for handling data. u201cSoftware is no longer written from scratch,u201d Weeks said. u201cNo matter how new and unique the application, 80 percent of the code used in a software application relies on third-party libraries or components.u201d He said enterprises are more reliant on the software supply chain than ever before. But he says many of the go-to open-source repositories that make up that supply chain are not vetted libraries of reliable code. Rather, they are warehouses with a varying percentage of outdated projects with security issues. According to an analysis of Sonatypeu2019s own Central Repository in 2015, developers had made 31 billion download requests of open source and third-party software components, compared to 17 billion requests the year before. And when Sonatype analyzed its own code library, it found 6.1 percent of code downloaded from its Central Repository had a known security defect. Weeks says Sonatypeu2019s is doing better than other repositories that offer no tools, no guidance and no red flags to prevent developers from using frameworks with faulty code. u201cThere is no Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval for third-party code.u201d u201cFaulty code can easily spawn more problems down the road for developers,u201d said Stephen Breen, a principal consultant at NTT Com Security. u201cEven when development teams have the best intentions, itu2019s easy for developers working under tight deadlines to not properly vet the third-party code used in their software.u201d Breen said when insecure code is unknowingly used to build a component within a software program, problems snowball when that component is used inside other larger components. One example of vulnerable third-party code reused repeatedly is a deserialization flaw in Apache Commons Collections (commons-collections-3.2.1.jar) u2013 first reported in 2015 and patched in November of the same year. Jarrett found there are still 1,300 instances of the old vulnerable version of the Commons Collections lurking inside Java applications using Spring and Hibernate libraries and hosted across multiple open source code repositories. u201cThe developer knows they are picking Spring or Hibernate for their development project. They donu2019t take it to the next level and realize they are also getting Common Collections,u201d Jarrett said. u201cThat Common Collections library is then used by thousands more projects.u201d According to Veracode, Apache Commons Collections is the sixth-most common component used in Java applications. It found that the unpatched versions of the softwareu00a0was in 25 percent of 300,000 Java applications scanned. Even more challenging for developers is updating those applications that are using the vulnerable version of libraries and frameworks since flaws were patched. u201cThink of it like a faulty airbag. Carmakers used those faulty airbags in millions of vehicles. Now itu2019s the carmaker on the hook to fix the problem, not the airbag maker,u201d Jarrett said. Leaky Apps, Bad Crypto, Injection Flaws Galore Veracode said the Apache Common Collection example is the tip of the iceberg. When Veracode examined vulnerabilities tied to insecure code it found application information leakage, where user or application data can be leveraged by an attacker, is the most prevalent type of vulnerability, accounting for 72 percent of third-party code flaws. Second are cryptographic issues representing 65 percent of vulnerabilities. That was followed by Carriage Return Line Feed (CRLF) injection flaws and cross site scripting bugs. Compounding the problem is an increased dependency on open-source components used in a wide variety of software products. The federal government is typical. It has an open-source-first policy as do many private companies. Relying on third-party libraries shortens development time and can improve the safety and quality of their software projects, Weeks said. u201cNot only does code reuse save time but it also allows developers to be more innovative as they focus on creating new functionality and not writing encryption libraries from scratch,u201d Weeks said. Done correctly, code reuse is a developeru2019s godsend, he said. For those reasons, security experts say itu2019s time for the industry to stop and consider where code originates. Sonatype, which markets and sells code verification services, promotes the idea of documenting softwareu2019s supply chain with what it calls a u201csoftware bill of materials.u201d That way developers can better scrutinize open-source frameworks before and after they are used; making it easier to update those applications that are using vulnerable old versions of libraries. Sonatype said it found oneu00a0in 16 components it analyzed had a vulnerability that was previously documented, verified and with additional information available on the Internet. u201cI canu2019t imagine any other industry where itu2019s okay that one in 16 parts have known defects.u201d The problem is that among developers there is a mix of denial and ignorance at play. u201cDevelopers choose component parts, not security,u201d Weeks said. It should be the other way around. u201cIf we are aware of malicious or bad libraries or code, of course we want to warn our users,u201d said Logan Abbott, president of SourceForge, a software and code repository. u201cWe scan binaries for vulnerabilities, but we donu2019t police any of the code we host.u201d Repositories Say: u2018Weu2019re Just the Hostu2019 Repositories contacted by Threatpost say their platforms are a resource for developers akin to cloud storage services that allow people to store and share content publicly or privately. They donu2019t tell users what they can and cannot host with their service. They say rootingu00a0out bugs in software should be on shoulders of developers u2013 not repositories. Writing good vulnerability-free code starts at getting good code from healthy repositories with engaged users. u201cBitbucket is to a developer like Home Depot is to a carpenter,u201d said Rahul Chhabria, product manager for Atlassian Bitbucket. u00a0u201cWeu2019ve built a hosting service with a variety of tools to help developers execute on their vision.u201d Chhabria said Bitbucket offers a range of tools to help sniffu00a0out bad or insecure components such as the third-party tool SourceClear for scanning dependency chains. It also offers Bitbucket that it says allows for team development of software projects and simplifies peer review. Another features, Bitbucket Pipelines, is also designed to help developers ship high quality code. GitHub is one of the largest repositories; it hosts 49 million public and private projects for its 18 million users. It does not scan or red flag insecure code hosted on its platform, according to Shawn Davenport, VP of security at GitHub. Instead developers can use third party-tools such as Gemnasium, Brakeman and Code Climate for static and dependency analysis. u201cThere is a lot of hidden risk out there in projects,u201d Davenport said. u201cWe do our best to make sure our developers know what tools are available to them to vet their own code.u201d He estimates a minority GitHub developers take advantage of software scanning and auditing tools. u201cUnfortunately security isnu2019t a developers first priority.u201d Other repositories told Threatpost they intentionally take a hands-off approach and say expecting them to police their own software isnu2019t feasible, not part of their mission and nothing they plan to do. They point out, flawed or not, developers want access to all code u2013 even older components. u201cAn implementation of a library in one framework might not be a security risk at all,u201d Breen said. He points out developers often temporarily revert to those old libraries as stopgaps should an updated version break a project. Automated Scanning to the Rescue? One attempt at nipping the problem at the bud is the used of automated security vulnerability and configuration scanning for open source components. By 2019, more than 70 percent of enterprise DevOps initiatives will incorporate automated scanning, according to Gartner. Today only 10 percent of packages are scanned. The Node.js Foundation, an industry consortium designed to promote the Node.js platform, relies on a more community-based approach via the Node.js Security Project. The goal is to provide developers a process for discovering and disclosing security vulnerabilities found in the Node.js module ecosystem. According to Node.js the approach is a hybrid solution that consists of a database of vulnerabilities and a community communication channel for vetting and disclosing vulnerable code. u201cItu2019s not a story about security professionals solving the problem, itu2019s about how we empower development with the right information about the (software) parts they are consuming,u201d Weeks said. u201cIn this case, the heart of the solution lies with development, and therefore requires a new approach and different thinking.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838166cefc42b00294ac8" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Socat Warns Weak Prime Number Could Mean Itu2019s Backdoored", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/socat-warns-weak-prime-number-could-mean-its-backdoored/116104/", "Date" : "February 2, 2016 , 10:43 am", "Article" : "Updateu00a0Socat is the latest open source tool to come under suspicion that it is backdoored. Socat is a versatile command line utility that builds bi-directional communication streams and moves data between channels, including files, network pipes, serial connected devices, sockets or a combination of any of these. A security advisory published Monday warned that the OpenSSL address implementation in Socat contains a hard-coded Diffie-Hellman 1024-bit prime number that was not prime. u201cThe effective cryptographic strength of a key exchange using these parameters was weaker than the one one could get by using a prime p,u201d the advisory said. u201cMoreover, since there is no indication of how these parameters were chosen, the existence of a trapdoor that makes possible for an eavesdropper to recover the shared secret from a key exchange that uses them cannot be ruled out.u201d Socat said it has generated a new prime that is 2048 bits long; versions 1.7.3.0 and 2.0.0-b8 are affected. The advisory adds that a temporary workaround would be to disable the Diffie-Hellman ciphers. A post to a technical forum discovered that the non-prime parameter was introduced more than a year ago. A note in the commit indicates that Socat was not working in FIPS mode because it requires a 1024 Diffie-Hellman prime, and added that a developer named Zhiang Wang provided a patch with the new prime. The poster revealed that Wang works at Oracle and contributes to Socat. A request for comment to Socat was not returned in time for publication;u00a0The big question is whether the non-prime prime was introduced intentionally or in error. u201cI cannot for sure rule out the possibility of a backdoor,u201d said Gerhard Rieger, a Socat maintainer. u201cBut personallyu00a0I do not believe that the contributor has a backdoor because he uses anu00a0email address at a well known and reputated company, and if someoneu00a0wants to install such a backdoor he would not use a parameter that canu00a0easily be proven as non prime.u201d While itu2019s unknown how Wang chose the prime, other commenters on the post said that checks in OpenSSL and other tools used to generate primes cannot be sure if the numbers are prime. Rieger told Threatpost: u201cI do not know if a quick way exists to check this definitely. Nou00a0attempts were made at all.u201d u201cIu2019m pretty sure that when you generate a prime youu2019re using the Milleru2013Rabin primality test in which case you only probabilistically choose a prime,u201d the post said. u201cIn fact, the is_prime functions in openssl donu2019t check if a number is prime. They only check that a number is prime within 1-2^-80 probability. Iu2019m not sure what the implications are though.u201d Regardless, since last January Socat has been vulnerable to attackers listening and stealing keys. The news comes less than a week after OpenSSL patched two vulnerabilities, the more serious of which addressed a flaw introduced in OpenSSL 1.0.2 providing support for generating X9.42 style Diffie-Hellman parameters. Previously, these parameters were generated using only u201csafeu201d prime numbers, but OpenSSL said today in its advisory that primes used in X9.42 parameter files may not be safe. Weak Diffie-Hellman crypto has also been suspected as the NSAu2019s top target in its efforts to break crypto implementations. A paper published last October by a laundry list of crypto and security experts said weaknesses in the publicly available prime numbers used as input to compute the encryption key in D-H exchanges could be the answer. Government intelligence agencies such as the NSA or GCHQ have the resources needed to build custom hardware that would derive an output that would give an attacker enough information to take further steps to eventually break individual encrypted connections. u201cItu2019s not arriving at the key, instead itu2019s telling you something about the mathematical structure about that particular choice of the prime number when used in Diffie-Hellman,u201d said J. Alex Halderman associated professor computer science and engineering at the University of Michigan and one of the authors of the paper. u201cThe analogy is sort of cracking the prime. After you crack the prime, breaking individual Diffie-Hellman connections that use that prime is easy.u201d The prime numbers are the most likely target, he said, because theyu2019re usually not generated from scratch, instead are plucked from previous work or taken from recommendations in established standards. Halderman told Threatpost that an intelligence agency of the NSAu2019s caliber would need to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to build the custom hardware required for such a large computation. This article was updated Feb. 3 with comments from Gerhard Rieger.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838286cefc42b00294ae4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patches Serious Flaws in Library", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-patches-serious-flaw-that-puts-popular-applications-at-risk/116063/", "Date" : "January 28, 2016 , 11:16 am", "Article" : "The OpenSSL project team today patched two vulnerabilities in the crypto library, one of which is rated high severity. The patches are in new releases of OpenSSL, 1.0.1r and 1.0.2f, and were made along with an enhancement to the strength of the cryptography in a previous mitigation for last yearu2019s Logjam downgrade vulnerability in TLS. The more urgent of the two patches addresses a flaw introduced in OpenSSL 1.0.2 providing support for generating X9.42 style Diffie-Hellman parameters. Previously, these parameters were generated using only u201csafeu201d prime numbers, but OpenSSL said today in its advisory that primes used in X9.42 parameter files may not be safe. u201cWhere an application is using DH configured with parameters based on primes that are not u201csafeu201d then an attacker could use this fact to find a peeru2019s private DH exponent,u201d the advisory said. An attacker would need to complete more than one handshake with a peer that is using the same private Diffie Hellman exponent, and could be used to learn a TLS serveru2019s private exponent, OpenSSL said. u201cOpenSSL provides the option SSL_OP_SINGLE_DH_USE for ephemeral DH (DHE) in TLS. It is not on by default. If the option is not set then the server reuses the same private DH exponent for the life of the server process and would be vulnerable to this attack,u201d OpenSSL said. u201cIt is believed that many popular applications do set this option and would therefore not be at risk.u201d OpenSSL said it has turned on SSL_OP_SINGLE_DH_USE by default and notes that admins should be aware of a possible performance impact. OpenSSL 1.0.1 is not affected because it does not support X9.42 parameters. The lesser severity vulnerability addressed today affects versions 1.0.2 and 1.0.1. The vulnerability patched allows an attacker to pull of a client-side hack by negotiating weaker SSLv2 ciphers. u201cA malicious client can negotiate SSLv2 ciphers that have been disabled on the server and complete SSLv2 handshakes even if all SSLv2 ciphers have been disabled, provided that the SSLv2 protocol was not also disabled via SSL_OP_NO_SSLv2,u201d OpenSSL said. The project team also said the upgraded crypto strength for the Logjam mitigation now allows for the rejection of handshakes with Diffie Hellman parameters shorter than 768 bits. u201cThis limit has been increased to 1024 bits in this release, to offer stronger cryptographic assurance for all TLS connections using ephemeral Diffie-Hellman key exchange,u201d OpenSSL said. Logjam was disclosed last May; the attack allows an advanced attacker in a man-in-the-middle position to downgrade a vulnerable server to a weak 512-bit connection. By doing so, any encrypted traffic on the network could be broken and read. This article was updated Jan. 28 to correct a reporting error about the scope of the vulnerabilities. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838426cefc42b00294b0c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL to Patch Two Vulnerabilities This Week", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-to-patch-two-vulnerabilities-this-week/116004/", "Date" : "January 25, 2016 , 12:59 pm", "Article" : "OpenSSL is scheduled to update two versions of the software this week, patching a pair of vulnerabilities in the process. The OpenSSL project this morning said the updates will moveu00a0users to versions 1.0.2f and 1.0.1r and should be available Thursday between 8 a.m. and noon Eastern time. u201cThey will fix two security defects, one of u2018highu2019 severity affecting 1.0.2 releases, and one u2018lowu2019 severity affecting all releases,u201d OpenSSL said in its advisory. According to the OpenSSL security policy, published in late 2014, high severity vulnerabilities trigger new releases, but are less severe than critical bugs. Vulnerabilities are ranked high severity if theyu2019re happening in less common configurations, OpenSSL said. Critical vulnerabilities, for example, affect common configurations and are much easier to exploit, can be attacked remotely, and will leak memory such as private crypto keys. No specific details about the flaws are available. OpenSSL was last patched in December when four flaws were fixed in 0.9.8 and 1.0.0, the final security patches for both versions. Versions 1.0.1 and 1.0.2 will receive security support through the end of 2016 and 2019 respectively. OpenSSL is one of the more widely deployed cryptographic libraries, living in not only homespun applications, but also in commercial software products. Since the discovery of the Heartbleed vulnerability in the spring of 2014, OpenSSL has made massive leaps in cleaning up its code and processes. Shortly after Heartbleed, funding was funneled in OpenSSLu2019s direction by the Core Infrastructure Initiative, giving it enough resources to hire its first full-time employees and develop a road map for overhauling critical areas of the code, including the TLS state machine. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838446cefc42b00294b0f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "US Navy Soliciting Zero Days", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/us-navy-soliciting-zero-days/113308/", "Date" : "June 15, 2015 , 9:09 am", "Article" : "The National Security Agency may find and purchase zero days, but that doesnu2019t mean itu2019s sharing its hoard with other government agencies such as the U.S. Navy, which apparently is in the market for some unpatched, undisclosed vulnerabilities of its own. A request for proposal posted last Wednesdayu2014which has since been taken downu2014to FedBizOpps.gov was a solicitation by the Naval Supply Systems Command seeking a CMMI-3 (Capability Maturity Model Integration) contractor capable of producing operational exploits that integrate with commonly used exploitation frameworks, the RFP said. The Navy said it was looking for vulnerability intelligence, exploit reports and operational exploit binaries for commercial software, including but not limited to Microsoft, Adobe, [Oracle] Java, EMC, Novell, IBM, Android, Apple, Cisco IOS, Linksys WRT and Linux, among others. Microsoft, IBM and EMC (parent company of RSA Security) declined to comment for this article. Requests for comment were also made to Adobe and Apple, neither of which was returned prior to publication. u201cThe vendor shall provide the government with a proposed list of available vulnerabilities, 0-day or N-day (no older than 6 months old). This list should be updated quarterly and include intelligence and exploits affecting widely used software,u201d the RFP said. u201cThe government will select from the supplied list and direct development of exploit binaries. u201cCompleted products will be delivered to the government via secured electronic means,u201d the RFP continues. u201cOver a one year period, a minimum of 10 unique reports with corresponding exploit binaries will be provided periodically (no less than 2 per quarter) and designed to be operationally deployable upon delivery.u201d Per the solicitation, it would seem the Navy is looking not only for offensive weapons, but also those that meet the need internally to emulate hacker tactics and capabilities. u201cReading the call, it seems as much about N-day (N<6 months) as 0-day for the red team when evaluating their own systems,u201d said Nicholas Weaver, a senior network security and malware researcher with the University of California at Berkeley. u201cAnd itu2019s as much about the capability of turning vulnerability reports into exploits. u201cI wouldnu2019t think of it as too out of the ordinary for such a solicitation about u2018offensive tools for defensive use,'u201d Weaver added. The request, however, does require the contractor to develop exploits for future released CVEs. u201cBinaries must support configurable, custom, and/or government owned/provided payloads and suppress known network signatures from proof of concept code that may be found in the wild,u201d the RFP said. The governmentu2019s involvement in the use and purchasing of zero days has always been a contentious point, not only over how the exploits will be used, but also because details wonu2019t be disclosed to the vendor leaving potentially millions of users exposed to attacks. Shortly after the disclosure last year of the Heartbleed vulnerability in OpenSSL, White House cybersecurity coordinator and special assistant to the president Michael Daniel explained the executive branchu2019s position on disclosure, which somewhat lines up with the NSAu2019s stance, in that there are occasions when the government wonu2019t share bug details with vendors. u201cBuilding up a huge stockpile of undisclosed vulnerabilities while leaving the Internet vulnerable and the American people unprotected would not be in our national security interest. But that is not the same as arguing that we should completely forgo this tool as a way to conduct intelligence collection, and better protect our country in the long-run,u201d Daniel wrote in April 2014. u201cWeighing these tradeoffs is not easy, and so we have established principles to guide agency decision-making in this area.u201d Danielu2019s memo shares the high-level questions the government considers when an agency proposes withholding vulnerability details from a vendor. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) today wrote that itu2019s skeptical the so-called Vulnerabilities Equities Process results in many disclosures considering the financial investment that, in this case, the U.S. Navy would make in contracting zero-day development; individual zero-days reportedly can sell for as much as six figures in legitimate and underground markets. u201cWhatu2019s more noteworthy is how little regard the government seems to have for the process of deciding to exploit vulnerabilities,u201d wrote Nate Cardozo and Andrew Crocker of the Electronic Frontier Foundation. u201cAs weu2019ve explained before, the decision to use a vulnerability for u2018offensiveu2019 purposes rather than disclosing it to the developer is one that prioritizes surveillance over the security of millions of users.u201d The NSA, for example, has a twofold mission to not only protect American networks, but also to gather data from foreign networks, which could include penetrating those networks using vulnerabilities the agency has discovered or purchased. The need to keep those vulnerabilities under wraps is of great value to the NSA, something director Adm. Michael S. Rogers said during a November speech that he discussed with the president. u201cHe also said, look, there are some instances when weu2019re not going to [share vulnerability information]. The thought process as we go through this policy decision, the things we tend to look at are, how foundational and widespread is this potential vulnerability? Who tends to use it? Is it something you tend to find in one nation state? How likely are others to find it? Is this the only way for us to generate those insights we need or is there another alternative we could use?u201d Rogers said. u201cThose answers shape the decision.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38384c6cefc42b00294b1a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patches Five Flaws, Adds Protection Against Logjam Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-patches-five-flaws-adds-protection-against-logjam-attack/113282/", "Date" : "June 11, 2015 , 1:48 pm", "Article" : "The OpenSSL project has patched several moderate- and low-severity security vulnerabilities and also has added protection against the Logjam attack in new releases of the software. Most of the vulnerabilities fixed in the new releases are denial-of-service bugs, but one of them can potentially cause memory corruption. That vulnerability only affected older versions of OpenSSL. u201cIf a DTLS peer receives application data between the ChangeCipherSpecu00a0and Finished messages, buffering of such data may cause an invalidu00a0free, resulting in a segmentation fault or potentially, u00a0memoryu00a0corruption.u00a0This issue affected older OpenSSL versions 1.0.1, 1.0.0 and 0.9.8,u201d the OpenSSL advisory says. In addition to the patches, the new versions of OpenSSL also include protection against the Logjam attack, which was disclosed in May. That attack involves the way that servers handle the Diffie-Hellman key exchange. u201cMillions of HTTPS, SSH, and VPN servers all use the same prime numbers for Diffie-Hellman key exchange. Practitioners believed this was safe as long as new key exchange messages were generated for every connection. However, the first step in the number field sieveu2014the most efficient algorithm for breaking a Diffie-Hellman connectionu2014is dependent only on this prime. After this first step, an attacker can quickly break individual connections,u201du00a0says an explanation of the vulnerability and attack, which was researched by a group of academic and industry experts from Johns Hopkins University, Microsoft, the University of Michigan and elsewhere.u00a0 OpenSSL has added protection against the attack in version 1.0.2b and 1.0.1n. u201cA vulnerability in the TLS protocol allows a man-in-the-middleu00a0attacker to downgrade vulnerable TLS connections using ephemeralu00a0Diffie-Hellman key exchange to 512-bit export-grade cryptography. Thisu00a0vulnerability is known as Logjam (CVE-2015-4000).u00a0OpenSSL has added protection for TLS clients by rejecting handshakesu00a0with DH parameters shorter than 768 bits. This limit will be increasedu00a0to 1024 bits in a future release,u201d the advisory says. The new releases also fix an exploitable issue that could allow an attacker to create malformed certificates and CRLs. u201cX509_cmp_time does not properly check the length of the ASN1_TIMEu00a0string and can read a few bytes out of bounds. In addition,u00a0X509_cmp_time accepts an arbitrary number of fractional seconds in theu00a0time string.u00a0An attacker can use this to craft malformed certificates and CRLs ofu00a0various sizes and potentially cause a segmentation fault, resulting inu00a0a DoS on applications that verify certificates or CRLs. TLS clientsu00a0that verify CRLs are affected. TLS clients and servers with clientu00a0authentication enabled may be affected if they use custom verificationu00a0callbacks,u201d the advisory says. The new OpenSSL releases are versions 1.0.2b, 1.0.1n, 1.0.0s, and 0.9.8zg. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838586cefc42b00294b31" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Critical IE Update One of Eight Microsoft Security Bulletins", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/critical-ie-update-one-of-eight-microsoft-security-bulletins/113231/", "Date" : "June 9, 2015 , 2:19 pm", "Article" : "IT administrators today were granted a relatively light month of security bulletins from Microsoft, which is likely to be welcomed given that Windows Server 2003 security support ends in little more than a month. Microsoft today released eight bulletins, two of them rated critical, including a now-customary beefy Internet Explorer update. Two-dozen vulnerabilities were addressed in the latest cumulative update for IE, MS15-056, a good chunk of those flaws rated critical in later versions of the browser. Most of the vulnerabilities enable remote code execution; one information disclosure bug has been publicly disclosed, but Microsoft said it is not aware of exploits in the wild. Microsoft said the publicly disclosed bug allows an attacker to access a useru2019s browser history; the update prevents browser histories from being accessed by a malicious site. The flaw does not impact Windows Server installations since those run by default in Enhanced Security Configuration, which is a restricted mode that reduces the chances of web content being executed on the server. u201cAlthough an attacker could almost certainly read the browsing history after exploiting any of the other dozens of vulnerabilities plugged this month, it seems likely to me that the information disclosure is going to be more easily exploited than any memory corruption bug,u201d said Craig Young, security researcher at Tripwire. Young also calls out one of the memory flaws, CVE-2015-1756, which is rated important by Microsoft in MS15-060. The bug is a use-after-free vulnerability in Microsoft Common Controls subsystem, which could allow remote code execution if the user interacts with malicious content through IE and then invokes F12 Developer Tools in IE. u201cThis flaw presents an interesting attack vector for going after researchers using the Internet Explorer u2018Developer Toolsu2019 to analyze a malicious of malfunctioning web site,u201d Young said. The IE bulletin also addresses three elevation of privilege flaws and a long list of memory corruption vulnerabilities that enable an attacker to run code on a victimu2019s machine. The other critical bulletin, MS15-057, patches a remote code execution bug in Windows Media Player. Malicious media content executed by the vulnerable media player could give an attacker complete control over the useru2019s computer, Microsoft said. The bulletin is rated critical for Windows Media Player 10 on Windows Server 2003, Windows Media Player 11 on Vista or Windows Server 2008, and Windows Media Player 12 on Windows 7 or Server 2008 R2. Microsoft said it addressed how the player handles DataObjects to correct the vulnerability. Microsoft did provide one workaround that involves removing wmplayer.exe from the IE ElevationPolicy. The Windows Media Player vulnerability was reported through coordinated vulnerability disclosure, Microsoft said, adding that it is not aware of public attacks exploiting this bug. The remaining bulletins are rated important by Microsoft: Microsoft also released two separate security advisories, one updating Flash Player in Internet Explorer, addressing security vulnerabilities already patched by Adobe earlier in the day, while the other updates the Juniper Networks Windows In-Box Junos Pulse Client for Windows 8.1 and RT 8.1. Junos Pulse is a VPN shipped with Windows 8.1 and later. The update patches the so-called FREAK vulnerability and other OpenSSL issues in Junos Pulse. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838706cefc42b00294b53" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Advantech EKI Vulnerable to Bypass, Possible Backdoor", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/advantech-eki-vulnerable-to-bypass-possible-backdoor/115900/", "Date" : "January 15, 2016 , 10:06 am", "Article" : "Researchers have uncovered yet another issueu2013and potential backdooru2013in Advantechu2019s beleaguered EKI-1322 serial device server. The Dropbear SSH daemon associated with the server, because of heavy modifications, fails to enforce authentication. This makes it so any user who wants to bypass authentication can do so with a public key and password.u00a0Dropbear is a more lightweight SSH server/client. Rapid7u2019s Chief Research Officer HD Moore discovered the vulnerability while looking at firmware version 1322_D1.98, a build that was released afteru00a0a hard-coded SSH key vulnerability surfaced in the EKI-122X series of products last November. The potential backdoor stems from a username and password combination that Moore discovered duringu00a0firmware analysis: u201cremote_debug_please:remote_debug_please.u201d According to Rapid7, u201cits presence was merely noted during binary analysis,u201d something that suggests there may be a backdoor hardcoded into the version. The firm claims it is unclear whether the backdoor is reachable on a production device by an unauthenticated attacker. Rapid7 pointed the bypass authentication issue out to Advantech on Nov. 11 and the companyu00a0remedied the vulnerability with an update, EKI-1322_D2.00_FW, which it pushed on Dec. 30. The company has yet to address the purpose or existence of the account that may be associated with the backdoor however. The EKI series of products are Modbus gateways which connect serial devices to TCP/IP networks, usually in ICS infrastructures. In November, an independent researcher discovered that several Advantech EKIu00a0switchesu00a0contained hard-coded SSH keys, something that could made it easy for an attacker to intercept communications to and from the devices. The Taiwanese company released new firmware to fix the issue, but it wouldnu2019t be long until another problem popped up in the products. Researchers with Rapid 7 pointed out in early December that EKI-1322 was still vulnerable to Shellshock and Heartbleed, bugs that affected machines running Bash, and OpenSSL respectively, in 2014. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838896cefc42b00294b7e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Patches 100+ Vulnerabilities in OS X, Safari, iOS", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/apple-patches-100-vulnerabilities-in-os-x-safari-ios/114876/", "Date" : "October 1, 2015 , 11:04 am", "Article" : "UPDATE Apple pushed out its latest operating system, El Capitan, yesterday, and while it boasts many security fixes, the update fails to address the outstanding vulnerability in Gatekeeper that came to light this week. The issue with Gatekeeper, as described yesterday by Patrick Wardle, the director of research at Synack, fails to verify whether an app runs or loads other apps or dynamic libraries from the same or relative directory. Apple is reportedly working on a short term mitigation for the simple, but effective bypass that Wardle cooked up and presented at Virus Bulletin today in Prague. The new OS X u00a0doesnu2019t appear to fix the XARA password stealing vulnerabilitiesu00a0in Keychain that a collective of Indiana University students publicized this summer either. When reached by Threatpostu00a0Thursday,u00a0Luyi Xing, one of the researchers who discovered the flaws in June, claimed that when he checked El Capitan on Wednesday the XARAu00a0Keychain problem wasu00a0still there and thatu00a0u201cOS X users are still under risks.u201d There is a fix in El Capitan that pertainsu00a0to access control lists as they relateu00a0to iCloud Keychain items u2013 and Apple credits Xing and company with discovering the issue u2013 but it doesnu2019t fix the XARA problem, which affects the u201cloginu201d keychain andu00a0stemmed from weak and faulty access control lists which made it easier to gain access to a useru2019s Keychain items. Apple claims it fixed that issue in its Online Store Kit through improved access control list checks. What Apple does fix in El Capitan 10.11 is a slew of other vulnerabilities, 100 in total, thatu00a0existed in everything from Address Book to Mail to Time Machine to Notes. The update also fixes roughly 20 bugs in PHP, a trio of bugs in bash, and multiple bugsu00a0in older versions of OpenSSH, and OpenSSL, all of which have been updated to their most recent versions. 45 issues were addressed in Safari 9, which Apple also pushed out Wednesday. In addition to a new feature that can mute audio on some Safari tabs, the latest iteration of the browser also fixed a handful ofu00a0security issues, including bugs that could lead to compromise, arbitrary code execution, leak browsing history, and more. The bulk of issues fixed by the update were WebKit-related memory corruption bugs that could have resulted in browser termination, and in one case, thanks to an API, leak browsing history, network activity, and mouse movements. One of the more curious fixes addressed an issue with how the browser interacted with password managers. u201cThe local communication between Safari extensions such as password managers and their native companion apps could be comprised by another native app,u201d Apple warns in its advisory, adding that the issue was addressed by a u201cnew, authenticated communications channel between Safari extensions and companion apps.u201d A separate update for iOS brought the mobile operating system to 9.0.2 and fixed another lockscreen bypass that was recently identified. Assuming an attacker had access to the physical device, because Apple enabled its personal assistant Siri on the lockscreen by default, they could access a usersu2019 photos and contacts from the lockscreen. [youtube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_giVIDKwRr4] The bug, dug up by iPhone user Jose Rodriguez, existed in iOS 9, and iOS 9.0.1, but was fixed yesterday. This article was updated on October 1 to reflect that the XARA vulnerabilities have not been addressed in El Capitan " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38388c6cefc42b00294b84" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Audit of GitHub SSH Keys Finds Many Still Vulnerable to Old Debian Bug", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/audit-of-github-ssh-keys-finds-many-still-vulnerable-to-old-debian-bug/113117/", "Date" : "June 3, 2015 , 7:37 am", "Article" : "An audit of the SSH keys associated with more than a million GitHub accounts shows that someu00a0users have weak, easily factorable keys and many more are using keys that are still vulnerable to the Debian OpenSSL bug disclosed seven years ago. The public SSH keys that users associate with their GitHub account are visible to other users, a feature that enables users to share those keys with others.u00a0Last December researcher Ben Cox decided to collect as many of those keys as he could and see what he could find out about them. He began the project on Dec. 27 and by Jan. 9 he had collected more than 1.3 million SSH keys. u201cI took a stab at this in 2013 but found that too many people didnu2019t use GitHub in SSH mode and thus had no keys set. This time however (with a new program that used the events api) I found that the majority of active users had some SSH keys in there,u201d Cox said in a blog post detailing the project. After collecting the keys, Cox began analyzing them. One of the things he looked at was the strength of the key, and he discovered that seven of the keys in his set were just 512 bits, and two others were 256 bits. Those key lengths are short enough to be in the range of factorization on many modern machines. u201c512 bit keys have been known to be factorable in less than 3 days. The main example of this is the Texas Instruments calculator firmware signing key that was broken, allowing the modding community to upload any firmware that they wanted,u201d Cox said. u201cI tried on my own to make a 256 bit key and factor it, and the process took less than 25 minutes from having the public SSH key to the factoring of primes (on a subpar processer by todayu2019s standards, and then a few more minutes to transform those back into a SSH key that I could log into systems with.u00a0This risk isnu2019t only real if someone had gathered together top of the line mathematicians or supercomputers worth of power, the 256 bit key I factored was factored on a i5-2400 in 25 mins.u201d The bigger issue, however, is that Cox found what he calls a u201cvery large amountu201d of SSH keys in the set that were vulnerable to the Debian OpenSSL bug from 2008. That vulnerability existed in certain versions of Debian and resulted from the fact that the OpenSSL random number generator included in those versions was predictable. That means that cryptographic keys generated with vulnerable versions could be guessable. The bug affected SSH keys, VPN keys, and DNSSEC keys, among others. Cox compared the list of keys he had gleaned from GitHub to a list of keys affected by the Debian flaw and found that some of the accounts using vulnerable keys had access to some large and sensitive GitHub repositories. Some of those repositories include Yandex, the Russian search provider, Spotify, the cryptographic libraries for Python, and Pythonu2019s core. Cox disclosed the problem to GitHub in early March and the vulnerable keys were revoked on May 5. The other weak and low-quality keys he discovered were revoked on June 1. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838976cefc42b00294b98" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "WordPress 4.4.1 Update Resolves XSS Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/wordpress-4-4-1-update-resolves-xss-vulnerability/115810/", "Date" : "January 7, 2016 , 12:08 pm", "Article" : "Developers at WordPress areu00a0encouragingu00a0users of the content management system to download and apply the most recent update, pushed yesterday, to address a cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability. According to WordPress the bug exists in all versions before 4.4 and if exploited, could allow a hackeru00a0to take control of an affected website. An independent security researcher based in the Philippines that goes by the handle u201cCrtc4Lu201d found the bug and was awarded a bounty through HackerOne. According to Aaron Jorbin, a WordPress contributor who wrote about the update Wednesday, the bug allows for compromiseu00a0by a remote attacker. Itu2019s not clear exactly how dangerous the bug is however, as no further details about it, or the researcher whou00a0discovered it, have surfaced yet. The update, 4.4.1, fixes 52 bugs in total. Some sites that had older versions of OpenSSL installed were unable to communicate with other services provided through some plugins, according to Jorbin. Users can download 4.4.1 directly, or if they donu2019t have automatic background updates enabled on their site, download it via WordPressu2019 update function in the Dashboard. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838c56cefc42b00294bf1" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "New Logjam Attack on Diffie-Hellman Threatens Security of Browsers, VPNs", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-logjam-attack-on-diffie-hellman-threatens-security-of-browsers-vpns/112916/", "Date" : "May 20, 2015 , 7:28 am", "Article" : "Researchers have uncovered a flaw in the way that some servers handle the Diffie-Hellman key exchange, a bug thatu2019s somewhat similar to the FREAK attack and threatens the security of many Web and mail servers. The bug affects all of the major browsers and any server that supports export-grade 512-bit Diffie-Hellman cryptography. The most serious threat from this issue likely is from advanced attackers with significant resources, i.e., intelligence agencies and other state-level attackers. The researchers behind the new attack technique say that information contained in the NSA documents stolen and leaked by Edward Snowden shows that the agency may have been able to break the prime numbers used in Diffie-Hellman key exchange. That would give the agency access to the traffic to and from the VPN, HTTPS and SSH servers whose security depends upon those primes. u201cMillions of HTTPS, SSH, and VPN servers all use the same prime numbers for Diffie-Hellman key exchange. Practitioners believed this was safe as long as new key exchange messages were generated for every connection. However, the first step in the number field sieveu2014the most efficient algorithm for breaking a Diffie-Hellman connectionu2014is dependent only on this prime. After this first step, an attacker can quickly break individual connections,u201du00a0says an explanation of the vulnerability and attack, which was researched by a group of academic and industry experts from Johns Hopkins University, Microsoft, the University of Michigan and elsewhere.u00a0 u201cWe carried out this computation against the most common 512-bit prime used for TLS and demonstrate that the Logjam attack can be used to downgrade connections to 80% of TLS DHE EXPORT servers. We further estimate that an academic team can break a 768-bit prime and that a nation-state can break a 1024-bit prime. Breaking the single, most common 1024-bit prime used by web servers would allow passive eavesdropping on connections to 18% of the Top 1 Million HTTPS domains. A second prime would allow passive decryption of connections to 66% of VPN servers and 26% of SSH servers. A close reading of published NSA leaks shows that the agencyu2019s attacks on VPNs are consistent with having achieved such a break.u201d The vulnerability can be exploited by a technique being called the Logjam attack, which allows an attacker to downgrade a vulnerable server to a weak, 512-bit connection. As in the FREAK attack, this requires the attacker to be in a man-in-the-middle position, but if the attack is successful, it would give the attacker the ability to read any of the supposedly secure traffic on that connection. The vulnerability derives from an issue in the TLS protocol itself. u201cThe attack is reminiscent of the FREAK attack, but is due to a flaw in the TLS protocol rather than an implementation vulnerability, and attacks a Diffie-Hellman key exchange rather than an RSA key exchange. The attack affects any server that supports DHE_EXPORT ciphers, and affects all modern web browsers. 8.4% of the Top 1 Million domains were initially vulnerable,u201d the attack explanation says. The researchers, who include noted cryptographer Matthew Green at Johns Hopkins and J. Alex Halderman at the University of Michigan, have written a detailed technical report on the attack and its implications. In assessing how widespread the effects of the problem are, the researchers found that 8.4 percent of the top one million sites are vulnerable to the attack on HTTPS; and 14.8 percent of servers in the IPv4 address space that support SMTP and StartTLS are vulnerable. All of the major browsers are vulnerable to the Logjam attack, but the vendors are deploying fixes now, so users should ensure that they are on the most recent release of their browsers. This attack is the most recent in an ever-growing list of vulnerabilities and attack techniques that have seriously underminedu00a0some of the Internetu2019s more broadly deployed security protocols, such as SSL and TLS. In addition to FREAK, the last few years also have seen the emergence of the BEAST, CRIME and POODLE attacks, as well as the OpenSSL Heartbleed vulnerability. But the newest discovery may be the most important, given the implications for the security of systems such as VPNs and SSH servers. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838db6cefc42b00294c19" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patches Bring Last Update for 0.9.8 and 1.0.0 Branches", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-patches-bring-last-update-for-0-9-8-and-1-0-0-branches/115561/", "Date" : "December 4, 2015 , 12:25 pm", "Article" : "The OpenSSL Software Foundation patched four vulnerabilities in the cryptographic software library on Thursday, likely marking the last time that two older versions of the libraryu00a0will receive updates. The group announced back in December 2014 that it would cease support for two of OpenSSL branches, 1.0.0 and 0.9.8 at the end of the 2015. Yesterday, in a security advisory, the Foundation said it anticipates this weeku2019s updates will be the last those builds receive. Project maintainersu00a0are urging users of the older branches, which date back to 2010 and 2005, to upgrade to later versions. Users of versions 1.0.1 and 1.0.2 still have some time to find a contingency plan however u2013 the Foundation plans to support the builds until the end of 2016 and the end of 2019 respectively.  Three of the four bugs fixed this week are marked moderate, including one which affects a signature verification routine that can be leveraged to crash an operation and be exploited in a denial of service attack. u201cAny application which performs certificate verification is vulnerable including OpenSSL clients and servers which enable client authentication,u201d the advisory says. Another vulnerability, a memory leakage issue, affects both versions 1.0.0 and 0.9.8, while another, a race condition, affects 1.0.0 u2014 meaning users of those builds will want to update before support ends in four weeks. The updates graduate version 0.9.8 to 0.9.8zh, version 1.0.0 to 1.0.0t, version 1.0.1 to 1.0.1q, and version 1.0.2 to 1.0.2e. As Heartbleed demonstrated last year, some companies unknowingly bundle old OpenSSL packages with new ones and keep shoddy records of whatu2019s deployedu00a0on their systemsu00a0u2013 part of the reason it took some several months to determine whether or not their systems were vulnerable to the bug. Just this weeku00a0researchers at Rapid7u00a0discovered a gateway device manufactured by industrial automation firm Advantech thatu2019s still vulnerable to Heartbleed, a year and a half after the bug was disclosed. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838e26cefc42b00294c29" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Mystery Patch is No Heartbleed", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-mystery-patch-is-no-heartbleed/111708/", "Date" : "March 19, 2015 , 10:00 am", "Article" : "Hold the logo and the dedicated website; the anticipated high-severity OpenSSL vulnerability is serious, but itu2019s no Heartbleed or POODLE. As it turns out, the bug is a denial-of-service condition that affects only version 1.0.2 of the ubiquitous crypto library. A dozen other vulnerabilities (nine ranked moderate, and three low) in older versions were also patched today. Users are urged to upgrade to version 1.0.2a. u201cItu2019s a [denial of service] attack; you can make a client or server crash with a malformed cert,u201d said Rich Salz, a member of the OpenSSL development team of the high-severity vulnerability. u201cBy our security policy, a DOS crash is a high severity issue.u201d From the advisory issued at 10 a.m. ET: u201cIf a client connects to an OpenSSL 1.0.2 server and renegotiates with an invalid signature algorithms extension, a NULL pointer dereference will occur. This can be exploited in a DoS attack against the server.u201d David Ramos of Stanford University reported the issue,u00a0CVE-2015-0291, to OpenSSL on Feb. 26; Ramos has a private exploit for the bug, but Mark J. Cox of the Open Source Project said they are not aware of public exploits. Under the aforementioned security policy, denial of service bugs along with memory leaks and remote code execution vulnerabilities trigger OpenSSL new releases. It is also the reason OpenSSL provided advanced notification of the vulnerability, which it has done in the past. That, however, did not stop rampant speculation on social media that the next Heartbleed was at the doorstep. The policy was published last September and spells out how vulnerabilities are classified (high, moderate, low). As is the case with high severity issues, those ranked moderate are kept private as well until the next scheduled OpenSSL release. Low severity issues, meanwhile, would be patched in development versions and perhaps back-ported to versions still supported by the project. Itu2019s unlikely a low severity issue, however, would trigger a new release, Salz told Threatpost in September. OpenSSL also re-categorized the FREAK vulnerability as high. The bug, which allows an attacker in some instances to downgrade crypto on a server to 512 bits, intercept encrypted traffic, and decrypt it on the cheap, was quietly patched Jan. 8 by OpenSSL. It was ranked low severity at the time and users were urged to upgrade to version 1.0.1k, 1.0.0p, or 0.9.8zd depending on what version theyu2019re starting out from. OpenSSL was notified Oct. 22 about FREAK, which stands for Factoring Related Attack on RSA Keys. Todayu2019s patches were shared with downstream providers who should also be patching soon as well. Salz said it itu2019s important to patch because itu2019s not too tough to exploit. u201cItu2019s pretty easy to take in a cert, read it, and modify it to cause a crash,u201d Salz said. u201cOn the server side, itu2019s riskier. They have to be asking for client certs, which doesnu2019t happen that often. The practice is not common, but triggering the crash is easy.u201d The vulnerability also affects clients, Salz said. u201cEither said that verifies the signature [is affected],u201d he said. u201cOn the server, if it is asking for client certs, or the client checking server certs, either side is affected.u201d The bulk of the remaining bugs patched today affect version 1.0.1 in addition to 1.0.2; the high severity vulnerability, meanwhile, may affect fewer since 1.0.2 is relatively new. u201cIt takes a while to get things into products, [1.0.2] is not as widely used as 101,u201d Salz said. u201cCompared to some of the excitement weu2019ve had in the past, this one wonu2019t require a logo or a theme song. Weu2019ve been talking internally about the need for [a ranking] stronger than high for Heartbleed or POODLE type of bugs. For now, weu2019ll just point to the policy.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838e26cefc42b00294c2a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Advantech ICS Gear Still Vulnerable to Shellshock, Heartbleed", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/advantech-ics-gear-still-vulnerable-to-shellshock-heartbleed/115533/", "Date" : "December 2, 2015 , 12:29 pm", "Article" : "Twice in the past year, security researchers have found and reported critical vulnerabilities in Modbus gateways built by Advantech that are used to connect serial devices in industrial control environments to IP networks. Most recently, independent security researcher Neil Smith found hard-coded SSH keys in the Advantech EKI series of devices, while a year ago Core Security experts found buffer overflow and code injection flaws in the same product. Despite all the eyes on the firmware, it seems two of the biggest bugs ever slipped through the cracks. Researchers at Rapid7 yesterday disclosed that the EKI-1322 GPRS IP gateway device is vulnerable to both Shellshock and Heartbleed, critical flaws in the bash shell and OpenSSL respectively. Shellshock and Heartbleed were Internet-wide bugs that in 2014 affected millions of Linux and UNIX machines running the Bash shell or vulnerable versions of the OpenSSL library. Fixes for all versions of Bash on Linux and OpenSSL were quickly pushed out, but as with many major vulnerabilities, users are reliant on vendors to apply patches in a timely fashion. Advantech has fallen short here, not only in its failure to patch two massive vulnerabilities, but in its silence in acknowledging Rapid7u2019s disclosure, which was made on Nov. 11. A request for comment by Threatpost to a U.S.-based representative of the Taiwan company was not returned in time for publication. u201cIu2019m kind of shaking my head over this because if you go back and look at previous history of vulnerabilities in these devices, another security company did an audit of all the web-facing binaries in January and at the time all the same vulnerabilities that I noted a couple of weeks ago were there as well,u201dsaid HD Moore, chief research officeru00a0of Rapid7 and creator of Metasploit. u201cItu2019s kind of confusing why someone went to all the trouble of reverse engineering the binaries, finding the stack overflows, finding the backdoor and SSH keys and just didnu2019t bother to check for Shellshock. Iu2019m not sure what happened there but itu2019s kind of funny that the previous audit had missed the most obvious bugs.u201d Rapid7 also found security issues in the productu2019s DHCP client version 1.3.20-pl0, including a stack-based buffer overflow. Moore, however, said heu2019s not sure the vulnerability is exploitable, but since the client is so outdated, itu2019s likely to be vulnerable to other flaws as well. Exploiting Shellshock, however, figures to be a little more straightforward given the fact that exploits have been public since shortly after the initial disclosures; exploits were also quickly integrated into Metasploit. In this case, however, the risks are likely lessened. u201cItu2019s probably not being targeted in the wild right now because you have to know the specific CGI path to exploit it,u201d Moore said. u201cOlder devices have a script called ping.sh, but on newer devices they have three or four shell scripts in a particular directory but none of the existing attacks against Shellshock look for those specific CGI-BIN names. Even though theyu2019re exploitable they probably have not been exploited through this bug before.u201d In early November, Advantech and ICS-CERT warned of the hard-coded SSH keys found in the firmware of the EKI-122x series; new firmware developed by Advantech addressed the issue by turning off SSH and HTTPs. u201cThe user should be aware that this upgrade will turn off their existing HTTPS andu00a0SSH and they will need to reconfigure the device to turn it back on. So if a user is planning on remotely upgrading the device via HTTPS or SSH, they need to be aware that it will come back on without it, and they will need to have a means to securely connect to the device,u201d Smith told Threatpost. Advantech said the hard-coded SSH keys were found in: Moore, meanwhile, said that Smithu2019s work caught his attention and that he dug into the new firmware looking for additions to the SSH BadKeys project he maintains, and led him to discover the additional vulnerabilities. Moore also said that while he found the OpenSSH configuration and associated private keys, neither are being used on the 132 series he examined. Instead, Moore said the Dropbear SSH client is used instead to generate RSA keys on the fly. u201cWhen the system boots up, thereu2019s a binary called edgserver and that one kicks off all other processes on the system and part of that creates a Dropbear key file on startup,u201d Moore said. u201cBoth new and old versions create that key on startup. Theyu2019re not vulnerable, and the key on the device isnu2019t being used by anything.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838ea6cefc42b00294c3b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Mobile Android, iOS Apps Still Vulnerable to FREAK Attacks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/mobile-android-ios-apps-still-vulnerable-to-freak-attacks/111695/", "Date" : "March 18, 2015 , 10:18 am", "Article" : "In the shadow of a major OpenSSL vulnerability scheduled to be announced tomorrow, lingering issues remain with mobile platforms and applications that still run versions of the crypto library vulnerable to FREAK attacks. A report published Tuesday by FireEye paints a bleak picture of vulnerable versions of iOS and Android applications that have been downloaded in aggregate more than six billion times. This is still the case, FireEye said, even after Apple released a patch nine days ago rectifying the vulnerability in iOS. u201cEven after vendors patch Android and iOS, such apps are still vulnerable to FREAK when connecting to servers that accept RSA_EXPORT cipher suites,u201d wrote researchers u00a0Yulong Zhang,u00a0Hui Xue,u00a0Tao Wei,u00a0Zhaofeng Chen. u201cThatu2019s why some iOS apps are still vulnerable to FREAK attack after Apple fixed the iOS FREAK vulnerability in iOS 8.2 on March 9.u201d The FREAK attack is possible because servers can be forced to downgrade and accept 512-bit RSA keys, which was the U.S. government-approved key strength for export overseas, a leftover artifact thought to be long-ago abandoned by most clients. An attacker with man-in-the-middle position can intercept encrypted traffic and decrypt it using modest computing resources. A study released by Royal Holloway University of London this week demonstrated there are factors that reduce computation times and costs. FireEye said it scanned 11,000 applications in Google Play that had been downloaded at least one million times each, and found 1,228 that were at risk because they were using a vulnerable OpenSSL library to connect to a vulnerable server. By the numbers, there were 664 using Androidu2019s bundled OpenSSL library and 564 with a custom compiled library. The problem is less severe on the iOS side with 771 of 14,000 apps scanned connecting to vulnerable HTTPS servers, FireEye said. u201cThese apps are vulnerable to FREAK attacks on iOS versions lower than 8.2,u201d the researchers wrote. u201cSeven these 771 apps have their own vulnerable versions of OpenSSL and they remain vulnerable on iOS 8.2.u201d Most of the vulnerable applications fall into categories that would affect user privacy and security, and include photo and video apps, lifestyle, social networking, health fitness, finance, communication, shopping, business and medical apps. The 512-bit keys are an artifact of the crypto wars; the U.S. government approved the weaker keys for export overseas. Most experts believed the weakened ciphersuites had been removed from most servers, but that was not the case upon the disclosure made by Microsoft and theu00a0French National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Control. Royal Hollowayu2019s study also showed that server admins and large technology providers have been moving quickly to eradicate the weaker ciphersuites. Original estimates had upwards of 26 percent of servers vulnerable to FREAK, but Royal Holloway estimates that number has dipped to around 11 percent. FREAK exploits, however, have their limits according to experts because they require an attacker to actively interfere with a TLS connection, meaning they must already have some kind of access to a server. Tod Beardsley, engineering manager at Rapid7 said the practical effects of the bug are limited. u201cBecause of the active man-in-the-middle requirement, this bug can be pretty useful for spies who are targeting specific users in otherwise high security network environments,u201d he said. u201cItu2019s not very useful for typical Internet criminals, since there are much easier methods to redirect and gather user traffic at varying levels of sophistication.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838ed6cefc42b00294c3e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "TLS Implementations Vulnerable to RSA Key Leaks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/tls-implementations-vulnerable-to-rsa-key-leaks/114567/", "Date" : "September 8, 2015 , 3:09 pm", "Article" : "A number of TLS software implementations contain vulnerabilities that allow hackers with minimal computational expense to learn RSA keys. Florian Weimer, a researcher with Red Hat, last week published a paper called u201cFactoring RSA Keys With TLS Perfect Forward Secrecyu201d that demonstrated vulnerabilities in a number of devices, including a popular Citrix load balancer and others from Hillstone Networks, Nortel, Viprinet and others. The TLS implementations in these products, Weimer said, lack proper hardening to defend against what is known as the Lenstra attack against the Chinese Remainder Theorem, also known as RSA-CRT. u201cIf a fault happened during the computation of a signature (using the RSA-CRT optimization), an attacker might be able to recover the private key from the signature (an u201cRSA-CRT key leaku201d). At the time, use of cryptography on the Internet was uncommon, and even ten years later, most TLS (or HTTPS) connections were immune to this problem by design because they did not use RSA signatures,u201d Weimer wrote of the Lenstra attacks. u201cThis changed gradually, when forward secrecy for TLS was recommended and introduced by many web sites.u201d Lenstra is described as a side-channel attack, and Weimer said that the RSA algorithm itself is safe against this attack and that the weakness is strictly in the various implementations that are not hardened. u201cWe saw several RSA-CRT key leaks, where we should not have observed any at all,u201d he wrote, adding that implementations in OpenSSL and NSS were hardened, for example, and that Oracle patched OpenJDK in CVE-2015-0478 after working with Weimer. All browser PKI certs where leaks were observed, have been replaced and revoked, he added. Hackers can use this offline attack relatively inexpensively compared to other cryptographic attacks, he wrote. Grabbing a private crypto key, however, is extremely dangerous to the data and communication the TLS encryption is supposed to be protecting. An attacker, Weimer said, would already have to be on the network via a man-in-the-middle attack or server compromise to pull off this type of secondary attack and ultimately impersonate the server in question. u201cEither the client making the TLS handshake can see this leak, or a passive observer capturing network traffic,u201d Weimer wrote. u201cThe key leak also enables decryption of connections which do not use forward secrecy, without the need for a man-in-the-middle attack.u201d Attacks, meanwhile, are difficult to spot since theyu2019re conducted offline. An intrusion detection system, Weimer said, could spot a key leak if it is configured to check all TLS handshakes. u201cFor the key leaks we have observed, we do not think there is a way for remote attackers to produce key leaks at will, in the sense that an attacker could manipulate the server over the network in such a way that the probability of a key leak in a particular TLS handshake increases,u201d Weimer said. u201cThe only thing the attacker can do is to capture as many handshakes as possible, perhaps by initiating many such handshakes themselves.u201d Forward secrecy is being implemented in many critical systems. With forward secrecy, a new crypto key is generated for every session, meaning that if a hacker is able to intercept many sessions, he would not be able to crack them all someday if he figured out one keyu2014just one session. Disabling forward secrecy, he said, is not a wise strategy. u201cDisabling forward secrecy would enable passive observers of past key leaks to decrypt future TLS sessions, from passively captured network traffic, without having to redirect client connections,u201d Weimer wrote. u201cThis means that disabling forward secrecy generally makes things worse. (Disabling forward secrecy and replacing the server certificate with a new one would work, though.)u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838f16cefc42b00294c45" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "New PHP Releases Fix BACKRONYM MySQL Flaw", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-php-releases-fix-bacronym-mysql-flaw/113740/", "Date" : "July 13, 2015 , 9:30 am", "Article" : "Several new versions of PHP have been released, all of which contain a number of bug fixes, most notably a patch for the so-called BACKRONYM vulnerability in MySQL. That bug in MySQL is caused by a problem with the way that the database software handles requests for secure connections. Researchers at Duo Security disclosed the vulnerability back in April after they noticed that MySQL was exhibited some weird behavior, namely an inability to enforce the use of SSL. The end result is that an attacker could force a client to send information over plaintext TCP rather than SSL. u201cThe most serious risk is posed by adversaries with passive monitoring capabilities like the NSA, intelligence agencies, or other capable attackers who may have a foothold on your network. Many MySQL clients will use a DNS hostname (eg. db1.app.company.com) to connect to the database server, triggering a DNS query that may traverse monitored links on the Internet. A global passive adversary like the NSA can spoof a reply to this DNS request in order to hijack the MySQL connection, perform the downgrade, and steal/manipulate database contents,u201d the Duo researchers said in an FAQ onu00a0the BACKRONYM bug. The PHP Group fixed this vulnerability in versions 5.6.11, 5.5.27, and 5.4.43. In addition to those releases, the group also released the beta of version 7.0.0. The maintainers said that users should not deploy this version on production systems and should use it only on test systems. u201cBeta 1 marks the feature complete phase. From now on, fundamental changes are not to be expected. Whatu2019s more, this release brings over 200 commits with about 25 reported bug fixes, as well as security, stability and other improvements. However it was delayed to catch up with the latest OpenSSL release issued on July 9th,u201d the PHP Group said in the release notes for version 7.0.0. n " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838f46cefc42b00294c4b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Census Project Identifies Open Source Tools at Risk", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/census-project-identifies-open-source-tools-at-risk/113726/", "Date" : "July 10, 2015 , 1:13 pm", "Article" : "Heartbleed may have brought on a major case of heartburn last April for system admins worldwide, but a positive offshoot of the biggest of the Internet-wide bugs was that it opened a lot of eyes to the lack of support afforded even ubiquitous open source software projects. Shortly after Heartbleed was discovered in OpenSSL, a consortium called the Core Infrastructure Initiativeu2014initially backed by the Linux Foundation, Google, Microsoft, Facebook, Amazon, Dell and othersu2014began funneling money into the OpenSSL project. The benefits were immediate for the maintainers of the crypto library who were able to fund two full-time employees and a dozen or so part-timers to get the code cleaned up and audited. Soon thereafter, money also began moving in the direction of OpenSSH, NTP, and GnuPG (GPG). The CII on Thursday announced more help for under-funded and under-resourced open source projects via the release to open source of full source and data from the Census Project. Until recently, the tool was used internally to assess risks to open source software projects and helped CII determine which were in the most immediate need of support, or deprecation if suitable alternatives existed. Along with a white paper written by Census Project coordinator David A. Wheeler, an open source and security research expert who works for the Institute for Defense Analyses (IDA), the Census Projectu2019s aim is to share metrics CII applies to identify which projects to help, and encourage contributions from the open source and security communities to sharpen its focus. u201cSpecifically, we want to look for critical projects that have matured and stabilized and are not seeing active development,u201d said Emily Ratliff, Linux Foundation senior director of infrastructure security to work on The Core Infrastructure Initiative. u201cWe can look at them, reach out to the maintainers to see whatu2019s going on, and if they need additional support. The Census Project collects data thatu2019s needed, automates the process and prioritizes projects to look at. Itu2019s also open to developers and students who may be looking for projects to contribute to; they can use it as well.u201d The Census Project currently lists hundreds of open source software projects itu2019s analyzed, and some of the metrics used include the number of contributions made to a project and the number of CVEs posted against it, all of which factor into a risk index for each project that ranges from 0-16. The highest score on the list is 11; funded projects such as OpenSSL, OpenSSH client and server, and NTP, score out at 8. The metrics and scoring are explained in depth in Wheeleru2019s white paper. Ratliff said that CII has already received suggestions for metrics based on those used in other open source projects, such as Fedora, an open source Linux-based operating system developed by the Fedora Project and sponsored by Red Hat. Fedorau2019s Florian Weimer, Ratliff said, suggested metrics used by the project that explain how a project is being used, security issues and whether maintainers are fixing bugs and patching vulnerabilities. u201cThis goes to the heart of what weu2019re looking for,u201d Ratliff said. u201cThis is why we open sourced it; we want feedback and experimentation going forward. It can be a fun and interesting experiment when we try out different metrics.u201d Ratliff said she hopes the Census Project will not only help identify projects that need help, but also make them more secure. u201cI hope we get more contributions to projects that may be in limbo, or the deprecation of projects that are dead and unneeded, while making sure that mature and stable projects are getting attention,u201d Ratliff said, adding that the discussion of appropriate security metrics is equally important. u201cThat discussion leads to best practices that open source communities should be following, and results in good, stable, strong, reputable projects.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838f86cefc42b00294c52" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Report: Companies Still Not Patching Security Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/report-companies-still-not-patching-security-vulnerabilities/110527/", "Date" : "January 20, 2015 , 8:00 am", "Article" : "The Cisco 2015 Annual Security Report is out and the findings are troubling as always: for every positive finding in the report, it seems, there is a negative finding, neutralizing any gains in the network security struggle. Chief information security officers say their security postures are strong while also admitting they do not install patches. Spam, which has been on the decline for years, increased by 250 percent from January through November. And while Java, once a favorite exploit platform, gets harder and harder to compromise, attackers have simply moved on to new targets such as Silverlight. Jason Brvenik, the principal Engineer of Ciscou2019s Security Business Group, explained that upticks in spam are due in large part to a shift in tactics. Instead of hundreds of thousands of messages coming from a single server, he explained, we are seeing a few messages coming from thousands of accounts. The tactic is known as u201csnowshoe spam,u201d because of the way the weight of the spam operation is distributed widely among compromised accounts. He went on to explain that these spam accounts offer their controllers more opportunity to launch phishing attack campaigns as well. Nine out of 10 security chiefs are expressing confidence in their strategies, but, according to available data and survey results, they are doing a poor job of deploying security updates. Some 75 percent of CISOs surveyed from 1700 companies rated their tools as very or extremely effective. However, fewer than 50 percent of respondents use standard tools such as patch and configuration management to help prevent security breaches and ensure that they are running the latest software versions. To that end, 40 percent of respondents admitted they are not patching and 54 percent have had to manage public scrutiny following a security breach. Beyond survey results and despite the high-profile nature of Heartbleed, 56 percent of installed OpenSSL versions are more than 50 months old, and therefore remain vulnerable to Heartbleed, according to Cisco. That, they say, is a strong indicator that security teams are not patching. Standard users are no better considering that only 10 percent of Internet Explorer users are working with the most updated version of Microsoftu2019s browser. Even with browsers that update automatically such as Chrome, Brvenik said, we still arenu2019t seeing 100 percent patch penetration. Brvenik claimed that Cisco is seeing a higher degree of adoption of detect and quarantine than of patching as a defense. Clearly, Brvenik told Threatpost, there is a gap between policies and behavior. Problematically, the report illustrates that standard users and even IT teams are often unwitting participants in the security problem. Java attacks decreased by 34 percent over the year while Silverlight attacks increased by 280 percent. Throughout 2014, Cisco says its threat intelligence research revealed that attackers are shifting their focus from servers and operating systems as more users are downloading from compromised sites leading to the massive increase in Silverlight attacks. Furthermore, as popular exploit kits like Blackhole become more thoroughly understood by researchers, criminals are relying more heavily on alternative exploit kits that are harder to detect. Similarly, historically insecure Adobe Flash and JavaScript are becoming more secure, so hackers are combining weak points in the two in order to exploit them. Flash malware can now interact with JavaScript to hide malicious activity by sharing an exploit between two different files: one Flash, one JavaScript. This type of blended attack, the report claims, is very hard to detect. The bottom line, Brvenik suggested, is that attackers are getting more proficient. The boardroom, he went on, has an increasingly important role to play. Security must be considered as a critical component of business success. Itu2019s been proven this year in particular (with prominent and costly breaches at companies like Target, Sony, The Home Depot and others) that security incidents have a direct impact on business operations. u201cSecurity traditionally has been a function of IT,u201d he said. u201cIt needs to move up the stack into a function of business.u201dnOne of the key points of the Cisco report is that security must support the business, work with existing architecture u2013 and be usable, be transparent and informative, enable visibility and appropriate action and be viewed as a u201cpeople problem.u201dnTechnologies canu2019t require experts to be usable, Brvenik explained. He went on to explain that users need to see and understand security and not view it as a barrier to productivity. When a user is blocked access to a site they deem relevant to work and they see a vague warning, they are just going to go home and access the site from their home network, Brvenik said. Then if they get compromised at home, the attackers can move laterally onto the to work network. Instead, users should see specific warnings, saying things like, u201cYou are being blocked from accessing this site because it has served malware in the last 48 hours. Please try back tomorrow.u201d Users need to understand the importance and impact of security, Brvenik said. Traditionally we have tried to shield customers from the complexities of security. I think that works against us, he said. u201cSecurity is now the responsibility of everyone within an organization, from the board room to individual users,u201d said John N. Stewart, the chief security and trust officer at Cisco. u201cSecurity leaders and practitioners need the support of the entire business to combat malicious actors who are increasing in their proficiencies to exploit weakness and hide their attacks in plain sight. To protect organizations against attacks across the attack continuum, CISOs need to ensure that their teams have the right tools and visibility to create a strategic security posture, as well as educate users to aid in their own safety andnthe safety of the business.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838fe6cefc42b00294c5c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Patches Critical Certificate Validation Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-patches-critical-certificate-validation-vulnerability/113703/", "Date" : "July 9, 2015 , 9:44 am", "Article" : "Organizations that installed the June 11 OpenSSL update need to pull it back immediately after a serious certificate validation error was discovered and patched today in a new update. The bug was reported two weeks ago to the OpenSSL project by Google researcher Adam Langley and BoringSSLu2019s David Benjamin, and affects only OpenSSL 1.0.1 and 1.0.2. u201cItu2019s a bad bug, but only affects anyone who installed the release from June,u201d said Rich Salz, a member of the OpenSSL development team. The bug was introduced during that update and affected relatively few organizations. u201cItu2019s a bad bug, but the impact is low. We havenu2019t heard any reports of it being used in production.u201d The vulnerability allows an attacker with an untrusted TLS certificate to be treated as au00a0certificate authority and spoof another website. Attackers can use this scenario to redirect traffic, set up man-in-the-middle attacks, phishing schemes and anything else that compromises supposedly encrypted traffic. Salz said there are no reports of public exploits. OpenSSL released on Monday an advanced notification that a patch for a single high-severity vulnerability was on the way and would be patched in versions 1.0.2d and 1.0.1p. This issue affects OpenSSL versions 1.0.2c, 1.0.2b, 1.0.1n and 1.0.1o. The vulnerability is not found in the 1.0.0 or 0.9.8 releases, said Mark J. Cox of the OpenSSL development team. u201cDuring certificate verification, OpenSSL will attempt to find an alternative certificate chain if the first attempt to build such a chain fails,u201d OpenSSL said in todayu2019s advisory. u201cAn error in the implementation of this logic can mean that an attacker could use certain checks on untrusted certificates to be bypassed, such as the CA flag, enabling them to use a valid leaf certificate to act as a CA and u2018issueu2019 an invalid certificate. u201cThis issue will impact any application that verifies certificates including SSL/TLS/DTLS clients and SSL/TLS/DTLS servers using client authentication,u201d the advisory said. Salz said that the patch required one line of code. A test case will also be developed for this type of bug, he added. u201cIncreasing test coverage is important,u201d Salz said. u201cThereu2019s a renewed interest to test everything to avoid this type of regression.u201d OpenSSL developers are in the midst of a massive cleanup of the codebase. Funding from a number of areas, principally the Core Infrastructure Initiative, has beefed up the projectu2019s resources, allowing them to fund a number of full- and part-time hires who can wade through not only bug fixes, but makeover gnarly, patchwork code, including the TLS state machine and other sources of vulnerabilities such as FREAK, Logjam, POODLE and Heartbleed. The June OpenSSL update patched Logjam, along with a host of other memory corruption and denial of service issues. That release also fixed an exploitable issue that could allow an attacker to create malformed certificates and CRLs. This is the second time OpenSSL has issued a pre-notification about a high-severity bug, which is in accordance with its security policy, published last September. Like the first time, the alert set off alarm bells that another Internet-wide bug such as Heartbleed might have been found. Instead, the bug was a denial-of-service condition that affected only version 1.0.2 of the crypto library. A dozen other vulnerabilities (nine ranked moderate, and three low) in older versions were also patched. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38390b6cefc42b00294c70" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "BlackBerry Warns Many Products Vulnerable to FREAK Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/blackberry-warns-many-products-vulnerable-to-freak-attack/111607/", "Date" : "March 12, 2015 , 2:28 pm", "Article" : "BlackBerry is warning customers that a large portion of the companyu2019s product portfolio is vulnerable to the FREAK SSL attack. Many versions of the BlackBerry OS and BlackBerry Enterprise Server are vulnerable to FREAK, as are a number of versions of BlackBerry Messenger. The advisory from BlackBerry says that there are no workarounds for the attack on the companyu2019s products. FREAK allows an attacker to take advantage of the fact that some SSL clients, including OpenSSL, will accept weak, 512-bit RSA encryption keys under some circumstances. An attacker who is able to execute a man-in-the-middle attack against a target using a weak key can then intercept the key and factor it offline. Because some servers will use the same key indefinitely, an attacker could then decrypt all of the future encrypted sessions on that server. BlackBerry said in its advisory that it is still trying to determine the extent of the effect on its products. u201cThis weakness could allow an attacker who is able to intercept and modify encrypted SSL traffic to force a weaker cipher suite. This weaker cipher suite could be broken by a brute force attack within a finite time. In order to exploit this vulnerability, an attacker must first complete a successful man-in-the-middle (MitM) attack. This issue was addressed in OpenSSL 1.0.1k and a fix is available for integration into affected BlackBerry products,u201d the advisory says. u201cFurther investigation into affected products is ongoing, and BlackBerry is working to determine the full impact of the issue and confirm the best approach for protecting customers.u201d The list of BlackBerry products that are considered vulnerable is extensive: BlackBerry said that it will update the advisory as more information becomes available. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839256cefc42b00294c9b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Microsoft Patches Old Stuxnet Bug, FREAK Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-patches-old-stuxnet-bug-freak-vulnerability/111565/", "Date" : "March 10, 2015 , 2:24 pm", "Article" : "Windows IT shops figure to be in for some scrambling today. Not only was it revealed that a five-year-old patch for a vulnerability exploited by Stuxnet was incomplete and machines have been exposed since 2010, but today is also Patch Tuesday and the updated Stuxnet patch is one of 14 bulletins released by Microsoft. Five of the bulletins are rated critical by Microsoft, and include another Internet Explorer rollup and a patch for the recently disclosed FREAK attack. Microsoft also released an advisory announcing that SHA-2 code signing support has been added to Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2. Later versions of Windows desktop and server OSes already include support for SHA-2 signing and verification, Microsoft said. The highest profile bulletin, however, is MS15-020 which resolves some issues left behind by the original Stuxnet patch, CVE-2010-2568, released in August 2010. The bulletin covers two remote code execution vulnerabilities, one addressing how Windows handles loading of DLL files, and the other patches how Windows Text Services improperly handles objects in memory. The DLL planting vulnerability was used by Stuxnet to attack the Iranian nuclear program in 2009. If a user viewed a folder or directory storing a malicious .LNK file, the exploit would allow the attacker to run code of their choice remotely. The issue was reported to HPu2019s Zero Day Initiative, which worked with Microsoft providing it with details and a proof of concept exploit that was used to build a new patch. The IE bulletin, MS15-018, addresses a number of memory corruption and elevation of privileges vulnerabilities in the browser. u201cThe security update addresses the vulnerabilities by modifying the way that Internet Explorer handles objects in memory, by modifying how the VBScript scripting engine handles objects in memory, by helping to ensure that cross-domain policies are properly enforced in Internet Explorer, and by adding additional permission validations to Internet Explorer,u201d Microsoft said in its advisory. The vulnerability is rated critical for all client versions of IE going back to IE6, while itu2019s rated moderate going back to IE6 on Windows Server. Microsoft said that one of the elevation of privilege vulnerabilities has been publicly disclosed and exploited. Some details on CVE-2015-0072 were disclosed in early February by U.K. researcher David Leo of Deusen. The vulnerability, a universal cross-site scripting (XSS) bug, could be exploited to steal information or inject code into domains on the browser on Windows 7 and 8.1, he said. Microsoft also patched a critical vulnerability in the Windows VBScript scripting engine that could lead to remote code execution. MS15-019 patches the flaw, which can be exploited if a user is led to a website hosting an exploit. VBScript 5.8 in IE 8-11 are affected by the vulnerability, which exists in the way the VBScript engine, when rendered in IE, handles objects in memory. Microsoft also patched critical remote code execution vulnerabilities in Office. The critical bugs in MS15-022 lead to remote code execution and can be exploited via malicious Office documents. In addition to Office software, Sharepoint is also affected with a pair of cross-site scripting vulnerabilities. The final critical bulletin is MS15-021, patches eight vulnerabilities in the Adobe Font Driver, four of them critical remote code execution bugs, along with less-severe information disclosure and denial of service vulnerabilities. The critical RCE vulnerabilities are exploited over the web by taking advantage of a flaw in the way the driver improperly overwrites objects in memory. None of the vulnerabilities were publicly disclosed, nor have they been exploited in the wild. Microsoft also released a bulletin addressing the FREAK vulnerabilities. MS15-031 specifically patches the security feature bypass vulnerability in Schannel, the Windows implementation of SSL/TLS, that enables FREAK attacks. FREAK forces systems to downgrade the key length of an RSA key to a crackable 512 bits, enabling a man-in-the-middle attack putting supposedly encrypted traffic at risk. Initially, it was believe that FREAK was confined to certain SSL clients, including OpenSSL, but Microsoft released an advisory on March 5 warning about Schannelu2019s exposure. u201cThe security update addresses the vulnerability by correcting the cipher suite enforcement policies that are used when server keys are exchanged between servers and client systems,u201d Microsoft said. Of the remaining bulletins, all of which are rated important by Microsoft, MS15-027 merits attention. The bulletin patches a vulnerability in Windows Netlogon by modifying the way it handles secure channels. u201cThe vulnerability could allow spoofing if an attacker who is logged on to a domain-joined system runs a specially crafted application that could establish a connection with other domain-joined systems as the impersonated user or system,u201d Microsoft said in its advisory, adding that the severity is lessened because an attacker would have to be logged on to a domain-joined system and be able to observe network traffic. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38392c6cefc42b00294ca7" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Security Audit Ready to Start", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-security-audit-ready-to-start/111538/", "Date" : "March 10, 2015 , 9:46 am", "Article" : "Funding from the Core Infrastructure Initiative has helped the maintainers of OpenSSL, one of the Internetu2019s most-deployed pieces of open source software, begin to get the crypto implementation on its feet. Despite its ubiquity, OpenSSL has historically been under-funded and under-resourced, though no one outside those close to the project knew how dire the situation was until Heartbleed and other Internet-wide bugs started experts looking closely at the security of open source software. With funding from CII and other corners of the Internet, full time help has been hired to maintain the regular flow of patches and feature upgrades, and since last spring, get the code base ship-shape for a full-fledged security audit. NCC Group Cryptography Services, the security company behind the first phase of the TrueCrypt audit, Monday announced that it, in partnership with the Linux Foundation, will conduct an audit of OpenSSL, looking at key components likely to put installations at risk in the event of a critical vulnerability. u201cA number of folks who have contributed their free time and professional time, kept OpenSSL growing,u201d said Tom Ritter, principal security engineer at NCC. u201cA lot of those contributions were around making OpenSSL more efficient and improving speedu2014and security improvements. Now, being able to have people work on it fulltime in a maintenance capacity goes long way. Any project that old accumulates technical debt takes that takes time and effort to pay down. Having fulltime focus on bug maintenance is super important.u201d OpenSSLu2019s code cleanup paved the way for the audit, Ritter said. Engineers spent significant time re-reading areas of code of most concernu2014and fixing bugs along the wayu2014in order to make the code more reliable, consistent and secure. Ritter said work on the audit should begin shortly, and the first set of results will be made available mid-Summer after OpenSSL has had time to review the results and patch. Ritter said the audit will be concentrated only in certain critical areas of the OpenSSL codebase, and will not be comprehensive. In scope are the TLS stacks, covering protocol flow, state transitions, and memory management. The BIOS, high-profile crypto algorithms and fuzzing of the ASN.1 and x509 parsers will also happen, Ritter said, adding that input and feedback from the current OpenSSL team also contributed to what ultimately ended up in scope for the audit. u201cWe chose areas around OpenSSL where a flaw here might be of higher severity than other areas,u201d Ritter said. u201cThe types of things weu2019ll be looking for are things such as protocol mishandling or state transitions, things like that, even timing attacks in crypto algorithms, or memory corruption that would yield a denial of service condition or remote code execution. Those are the types of bugs looking for. If find one of those, it has the possibility of being fairly critical.u201d Unlike the TrueCrypt audit where one of the stated goals was to determine whether the popular encryption software had been backdoored, that isnu2019t necessarily the case with OpenSSL, Ritter said. u201cYou havenu2019t heard much about [backdoors] in OpenSSL,u201d Ritter said. u201cOur real goal is to find any sort of exploitable security concerns. I think that weu2019re focusing on it from the perspective of a security audit.u201d Expect Ritter and his team to spend plenty of time in front of large whiteboards for the next few months, tracing out function flows and diagram the code in order to support the manual and automated code review it will take to properly assess OpenSSL. And while the audit may not yield something as dramatic as Heartbleed, you can expect Ritteru2019s team to be looking in that direction. u201cCertainly looking at historical bugs in the platform gives us an idea of the types of flaws present still; it will be helpful,u201d Ritter said. u201cIu2019m not going to say weu2019re doing to go in expecting to find any particular bug in a particular area, but looking at historical bugs does guide us in certain areas as do a lot of the less high-profile bugs. Looking at just about any bug and seeing the underlying causes of it gives us a sense that if something similar is happening elsewhere, there could be a bug there.u201d u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839436cefc42b00294ccd" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Threatpost News Wrap, May 1, 2015", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/threatpost-news-wrap-may-1-2015/112538/", "Date" : "May 1, 2015 , 11:38 am", "Article" : "Dennis Fisher and Mike Mimoso discuss the post-RSA news, including the MySQL bug, the progress of the OpenSSL overhaul and the wildly entertaining House hearing on crypto backdoors.  Download:u00a0digital_underground_200.mp3 Music by Chris Gonsalves  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839486cefc42b00294cd8" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "New FREAK Attack Threatens Many SSL Clients", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-freak-attack-threatens-many-ssl-clients/111390/", "Date" : "March 3, 2015 , 2:30 pm", "Article" : "For the nth time in the last couple of years, security experts are warning about a new Internet-scale vulnerability, this time in some popular SSL clients. The flaw allows an attacker to force clients to downgrade to weakened ciphers and break their supposedly encrypted communications through a man-in-the-middle attack. Researchers recently discovered that some SSL clients, including OpenSSL, will accept weak RSA keysu2013known as export-grade keysu2013without asking for those keys. Export-grade refers to 512-bit RSA keys, the key strength that was approved by the United States government for export overseas. This wasu00a0an artifact from decades ago and it was thought that most servers and clients had long ago abandoned such weak ciphers. u201cThe export-grade RSA ciphers are the remains of a 1980s-vintage effort to weaken cryptography so that intelligence agencies would be able to monitor. This was done badly. So badly, that while the policies were ultimately scrapped, theyu2019re still hurting us today,u201d cryptographer Matthew Green of Johns Hopkins University wrote in a blog post explaining the vulnerability and its consequences. u201cThe 512-bit export grade encryption was a compromise between dumb and dumber. In theory it wasu00a0designed to ensure that the NSA would have the ability to u2018accessu2019 communications, while allegedly providing crypto that was still u2018good enoughu2019 for commercial use. Or if you prefer modern terms, think of it as the original u2018golden master keyu2018.u201d  The vulnerability affects a variety of clients, most notably Appleu2019s Safari browser. The bug was discovered by a large group of researchers from Microsoft Research and theu00a0French National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Control, and they found that given a server that supports export-grade ciphers and a client that accepts those weak keys, an attacker with a man-in-the-middle position could force a client to downgrade to the weak keys. He could then take the key and factor it, which researchers were able to do in about seven and a half hours, using Amazon EC2. And because itu2019s resource-intensive to generate RSA keys, servers will generate one and re-use it indefinitely. u201cWhat this means is that you can obtain that RSA key once, factor it, and break every session you can get your u2018man in the middleu2019 mitts on until the server goes down. And thatu2019s the ballgame,u201d Green said. The number of vulnerable servers is not insignificant. Researchers at the University of Michigan found that 36.7 percent of browser-trusted sites are vulnerable to this attack, which is being called FREAK, for factoring related attack on RSA keys. But experts say that, in practice, the attack may not be much of an imminent danger. u201cIn practice, I donu2019t think this is a terribly big issue, but only because you have to have many u201cducks in a rowu201d: 1) find a vulnerable server that offers export cipher suites; 2) it should reuse a key for a long time; 3) break key; 4) find vulnerable client; 5) attack via MITM (easy to do on a local network or wifi; not so easy otherwise),u201d said Ivan Ristic of Qualys. But, as Green points out, objects on the Internet are often worse than they appear. u201cNo matter how bad you think the Internet is, it can always surprise you. The surprise in this case is that export-grade RSA is by no means as extinct as we thought it was,u201d he said. Vendors are rolling out patches for the issue now. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839546cefc42b00294cea" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Fixes Eight Security Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-fixes-eight-security-vulnerabilities/110279/", "Date" : "January 8, 2015 , 11:40 am", "Article" : "The OpenSSL Project has released several new versionsu00a0of the softwareu00a0that fixu00a0eightu00a0security vulnerabilities, including several certificate issues and a couple of denial-of-service flaws. The patches included in OpenSSL 1.0.0p, 1.0.1k and 0.98zd are not for critical or high-risk vulnerabilities, but they do fix some interesting vulnerabilities. Two of the bugs are rated moderate and the other six are considered low risks. None of the vulnerabilities can result in remote code execution, according to the OpenSSL advisory, but some could be used to hang affected servers. One of the moderate bugs is a memory leak in the buffer record of the DTLS implementation, which could allow an attacker to cause a denial-of-service condition on vulnerable machines. u201cA memory leak can occur in the dtls1_buffer_record function under certainu00a0conditions. In particular this could occur if an attacker sent repeated DTLS records with the same sequence number but for the next epoch. The memory leak could be exploited by an attacker in a Denial of Service attack through memory exhaustion,u201d the advisory says. The other moderate vulnerability is also in DTLS, and results in a DoS condition if an attacker sends a malicious DTLS message to a vulnerable server. The packet will cause a segmentation fault in OpenSSL because of a NULL pointer dereference. Among the other vulnerabilities patched in the new releases are a handful of certificate-related problems, all of which are rated as low risks. One of the vulnerabilities can allow an attacker to remove forward secrecy from a server under some conditions. u201cAn OpenSSL client will accept a handshake using an ephemeral ECDH ciphersuiteu00a0using an ECDSA certificate if the server key exchange message is omitted. This effectively removes forward secrecy from the ciphersuite,u201d the advisory says. Another of the vulnerabilities could allow an attacker to authenticate to a server without using a private key. u201cAn OpenSSL server will accept a DH certificate for client authenticationu00a0without the certificate verify message. This effectively allows a client to authenticate without the use of a private key. This only affects servers which trust a client certificate authority which issues certificates containing DH keys: these are extremely rare and hardly ever encountered,u201d the advisory says. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839556cefc42b00294cec" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Past, Present and Future", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-past-present-and-future/112485/", "Date" : "April 29, 2015 , 1:06 pm", "Article" : "Rarely does anything have a defined turning point in its history, a single day where people can point and say that was the day everything changed. For OpenSSL, that day was April 7, 2014, the day that Heartbleed became part of the security lexicon. Heartbleed was a critical vulnerability in the venerable crypto library. OpenSSL is everywhere, in tens of thousands of commercial and homespun software projects. And so too, as of last April, was Heartbleed, an Internet-wide bug that leaked enough memory that a determined hacker could piece together anything from credentials to encryption keys. It was a bad day for server admins worldwide and an equally terrible day for the small crew of folks who kept OpenSSL afloat. Like natural disasters in the real world, people donu2019t understand the shaky footing some things are balancing upon until an earthquake or hurricane tears through town. That certainly applies to OpenSSL, for Heartbleed made people take notice that, despite the library living seemingly in everything everywhere, it was barely funded and sadly under-resourced. u201cTwo years ago, it was a night-and-day difference. Two years ago, aside from our loyal user community, we were invisible. No one knew we existed,u201d says Steve Marquess, cofounder, president and business manager of the OpenSSL Foundation, the corporate entity that handles commercial contracting for OpenSSL. u201cOpenSSL is used everywhere: hundreds, thousands of vendors use it; every smartphone uses it. Everyone took that for granted; most companies have no clue they even used it.u201d To say OpenSSL has been flipped on its headu2014in a good wayu2014is an understatement. Heartbleed made the tech world realize that the status quo wasnu2019t healthy to the security and privacy of ecommerce transactions and communication worldwide. Shortly after Heartbleed, the Core Infrastructure Initiative was created, uniting The Linux Foundation, Microsoft, Facebook, Amazon, Dell, Google and other large technology companies in funding various open source projects. OpenSSL was the first beneficiary, getting enough money to hire Dr. Steve Henson and Andy Polyakov as its first full-timers. Henson, who did not return a request to be interviewed for this article, is universally known as the one steady hand that kept OpenSSL together, an unsung hero of the project who along with other volunteers handled bug reports, code reviews and changes. Now with steady money flowing in, Henson and Polyakov are flanked by a battery of compensated help that is executing on a road map to clean up the OpenSSL codebase, institute processes for critical changes, and how to communicate those changes. A laborious refactoring is under way, as is a crucial overhaul of the TLS state machine, super important projects that could see the light of day by the summeru2014just in time for the results of an audit of the current OpenSSL code being conducted by NCC Group Cryptography Services, the same outfit that recently completed an audit of TrueCrypt.  OpenSSL Past: Pre-Heartbleed u201cOpenSSL pre-Heartbleed was kind of a mess; there was one guy working on it with a few others putting in contributions around the edges,u201d said Matthew Green, a cryptography expert and professor at Johns Hopkins University. u201cOver the years, OpenSSL accumulated a lot of cruft. The quality of code was really low and no one was interested in refactoring it. The thing about OpenSSL is that itu2019s low level code that lives in the critical path of every machine that wants to communicate securely. u201cIt lives next to the network stack and that means a lot of data is going through it, and not all of it is friendly data,u201d Green said. u201cWhat happened was that OpenSSL was like UNIX or the TCP/IP stack back in the day; it was critical and not mature, and no one had looked at it since the u201980s.u201d All of that is changing, given the CII funding, and awareness. Rich Salz, a member of the current OpenSSL development team and an engineer at Akamai, has been a longtime contributor. He remembers times he would send patches in to OpenSSL for review and they would languish in limbo because there were few resources to address them in a timely manner. u201cBefore, youu2019d throw something over the wall and maybe get a response three months later,u201d Salz said. u201cNow, thereu2019s a defined growth path, defined [criticality] rankings, and a process for who coordinates things if thereu2019s a high-level bug. We have policies and procedures that made the project healthy and got the community more involved. Itu2019s been a really good thing.u201d Kenneth White, a security researcher and director of the Open Crypto Audit Project, said that OpenSSL isnu2019t alone in its shaky standing. u201cEven talented technical people with a grasp on Linux or network security donu2019t appreciate how fragile the whole stack is, not just OpenSSL, but the whole stack,u201d White said. With Heartbleed, POODLE, FREAK and other bugs cutting across a swathe of technologies, White hopes many start paying serious attention. u201cYouu2019ve got things like DNS or libcurl everywhere under the hood. So many pieces of the stack that people assume are solid and mature code bases that are still maintained by one or two people. A lot of the foundation of our entire infrastructure in terms of global networking is built on so many layers of trust. If you pull back the covers, there are really so many layers of legacy cruft that needs scrutiny,u201d White said. The attention on OpenSSL, for example, shed harsh light on simple things such as code structure. Already, thousands of lines of code have been cleaned of bad indents, for example, using a code cleaner to create a consistent style so that code can be read and haphazard mistakes avoided. u201cSome projects contain integration hooks that you canu2019t check if it doesnu2019t follow structure. That sounds silly, but thatu2019s exactly how gotofail happened,u201d White said. u201cItu2019s a minor footnote, trivial pieces, but theyu2019re risky because theyu2019re touching every source file in the project in an automated way.u201d OpenSSL Present: Spring Cleaning The OpenSSL makeover currently under way promises to be a complicated and busy time for the development team. Priority number one is the rewriting of the TLS state machine, which, like much of the rest of the OpenSSL codebase, has been a patchwork effort. u201cThe [TLS] state machine is a big thing,u201d Salz said. u201cThe whole mechanism, the kindest thing we can say, is that it grew organically. It started with SSL v2, grew from there and things got out of control. Thatu2019s one of our big areas, the source of many vulnerabilities and bugs in OpenSSL.u201d Salz and Green point out that the FREAK vulnerabilities that were disclosed in early March are examples of bugs caused by the fragility and complexity of the state machine. Some SSL clients, OpenSSL included, contained the FREAK vulnerability, which is short for Factoring Related Attack on RSA Keys. The vulnerability allows an attacker to force clients to downgrade to weakened 512-bit RSA keys that are breakable and put encrypted communication at risk through a man-in-the-middle attack. u201cOpenSSL and TLS are complicated protocols,u201d Green said. u201cThey have to know what is coming in at the right time, and reject anything else. These are thousands of lines of code that should be broken up into manageable pieces versus spaghetti-ing the code. Theyu2019ve added more spaghetti through the years, and no one has gone in there with a scalpel and ripped it out. Now theyu2019re in there designing the right state machine.u201d The refactoring, meanwhile, involves overhauling other key pieces of the library such as memory management, the EVP library which provides an interface to crypto functions, OpenSSL input-output abstraction layers, as well as the construction of an entire testing harness, White said, that will allow for a lot of the analysis being done to be repeated in an automated way. Thereu2019s also a high computation aspect to the refactoring and subsequent audit of OpenSSL. u201cItu2019s going to be brutally exercised in a way that hasnu2019t been done in such a coordinated fashion,u201d White said. u201cThis is one of the most ambitious security projects done in a while, thatu2019s absolutely for sure. We have high ambitions.u201d For all its faults, OpenSSL is a solid crypto library, u201cbattle-hardenedu201d as White put it, and one whose core library hasnu2019t changed much through the years. u201cIronically OpenSSL is amazingly good at crypto,u201d Green said. u201cItu2019s amazing, but amazing in messy ways, kind of like the brilliant prodigy who can play concertos but wonu2019t clean up his room. The crypto code is amazingly good, but high level stuff is sloppy like parsing packages that didnu2019t get Heartbleed.u201d OpenSSL Future: Audit Time The OpenSSL Audit, sponsored by the Core Infrastructure Initiative, is under way and the first set of results could trickle in by early summer. Like TrueCrypt, OpenSSL developers are curious to see the vulnerabilities dredged up during the inspection, and like its file encryption cousin, have fingers crossed that a backdoor isnu2019t lurking. u201cWhat I worry about is entire classes of vulnerabilities,u201d White said. u201cAuditing source code is useful, but we donu2019t run source code, we run compiled binaries. What worries me are classes of things that are systematically an issue, not the whack-a-mole thing. With this number of eyes and the caliber of crypto engineers looking at the code, itu2019s inevitable they will turn over interesting bugs. Occamu2019s razor has utility in these things. Itu2019s far more likely to be things in forgotten code or esoteric things, rarely used options than anything malicious.u201d While the audit will provide value to the developers, it is however, just a point-in-time snapshot. Thatu2019s why things like development of the test harness and continued attention thrust on OpenSSL have engineers most excited. u201cWeu2019re definitely treating [the audit] as a source of advance QA,u201d Salz said. u201cThe value to the community and to us will be folks who are really good at it trying to break things. We donu2019t have a dedicated test team and we want to show that this thing works well and that if I give you a million-byte certificate, it wonu2019t fall over and die.u201d While OpenSSL continues to collect from the Core Infrastructure Initiative, individual donations have dwindled down to pre-Heartbleed levels. u201cWe were getting around $2,000 a year in donations in the years heading up to Heartbleed, and weu2019re back to that now,u201d Marquess said. u201cWe cherish those because individual people think OpenSSL is that important. Itu2019s also interesting how much we get from parts world where privacy is a life-and-death matter with messages of how important crypto is to them.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839566cefc42b00294cee" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Core Infrastructure Initiative Launches Open Source Security Badge Program", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/core-infrastructure-initiative-launches-open-source-security-badge-program/114326/", "Date" : "August 18, 2015 , 4:30 pm", "Article" : "The Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII), a consortium of technology companies guided by The Linux Foundation, has thrown good money at solving the security woes of open source software. Since its inception last year, it has provided funding for the OpenSSL project allowing it to hire full-time help and audit and clean its codebase. It has also helped support the Open Crypto Audit Project (OCAP) which was behind the TrueCrypt audit, as well as GnuPG, Frama-C, and the Fuzzing Project. In addition to funding specific projects, CII sponsors initiatives that preempt security trouble. Its latest venture, announced today, is the establishment of a free badge program that helps enterprise developers evaluate whether open source projects follow secure development practices. For now, CII is looking for industry feedback on what criteria should be used to establish the programu2019s eventual gold, silver and bronze tiers. A first draft of criteria, written by open source and security researcher David A. Wheeler of the Institute for Defense Analyses and Dan Kohn, a CII senior advisor, is available on Github. Some of the criteria, such as whether the project has a public website, basic content, a OSS license, a public version-controlled source repository, bug reporting processes, unique version numbering, change log and more, will ultimately be automatically testable, said CII senior director of infrastructure Emily Ratliff. For other criteria that are not automatically testable, such as whether there are multiple developers who review commits, the CII will develop a survey-based system for those questions. u201cWhen youu2019re creating a project, whether itu2019s open- or closed-source, very few projects are 100 percent your own code. You have to decide which projects you can rely upon,u201d Ratliff said. u201cOpen source projects often donu2019t have risk evaluations, and itu2019s tricky to do yourself. Weu2019re introducing this best practices badge program to make it easy to find all that information in one place and make it easy to see which project is self-certifying its security best practices around development.u201d Ratliff hopes that developersu2014especially those already developing under some kind of software assurance modelu2014contribute not only feedback on existing criteria but share additional best practices. While there is no cost for the badge program, projects will have to enroll and best tested and/or complete the survey, Ratliff said. u201cWe want feedback on the criteria: Is it too easy, too hard,u201d Ratliff said. u201cThis is ongoing, an open call for anyone. When we feel like we have had sufficient discussion with the key projects and with enough developers, weu2019ll move on to the next phase [completing the automated testing code and awarding badges].u201d The CII also announced that it had added two new advisory board members, Adam Shostack and Tom Ritter. Shostack is best known for his time at Microsoft where he designed the freely available threat model tool used by its Security Development Lifecycle. He is also the coauthor of the New School of Information Security. Ritter is practice director of Cryptography Services at the NCC Group one of the auditors involved in the TrueCrypt audit. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839666cefc42b00294d06" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "New POODLE SSL 3.0 Attack Exploits Protocol Fallback Issue", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-poodle-ssl-3-0-attack-exploits-protocol-fallback-issue/108844/", "Date" : "October 14, 2014 , 8:13 pm", "Article" : "A newu00a0attacku00a0on theu00a0SSLv3 protocol, disclosed Tuesday, takes advantage of an issue with the protocol thatu00a0enables a network attacker to recover the plaintext communications of a victim. The attack is considered easier to exploit than similar previous attacks against SSL/TLS, such as BEAST and CRIME, and can enable an attacker to retrieve a supposedly secure cookie for a given site. The attack is known as POODLE and was developed by several researchers at Google, including Thai Duong, who was part of the duo who developed the BEAST and CRIME attacks several years ago. The technique takes advantage of the fact that when a secure connection attempt fails, servers will fall back to older protocols, such as SSLv3, in an attempt to communicate securely with the remote client. An attacker who can trigger a connection failure can then force the use of SSLv3 and attempt the new attack. u201cOnce you get those conditions, it should be about 256 web requests to obtain each byte of the cookie. If you assume a couple of dozen connections can be made per minute, that works out to 10 minutes per byte worst case. So it could take a while to run,u201d said Matthew Green, an assistant research professor at Johns Hopkins University and a cryptographer. The new attack has a similar result to the BEAST attack developed by Duong and Juliano Rizzo in 2011: the decryption of protected sensitive content. The use of the BEAST attacku00a0requires some highly specific conditions and the technique is slower than POODLE. Green said that the requirements to use the POODLE attack are less onerous. u201cWhat makes it worse than BEAST is two things: One, Itu2019s not as easy to fix as BEAST was on TLS. Two, it doesnu2019t require you to be running a Java applet the way you needed to with BEAST. You can probably execute the attack with a piece of Javascript,u201d Green said. The easiest fix for the new attack is to disable SSLv3, but that has compatibility implications for browsers, especially older ones. That could lead to problems for site operators, who typically want to support a wide range of protocols in order to serve a broad range of users. To address the problem, Moller and fellow Google security researcher Adam Langley have forwarded a mechanism known as TLS_FALLBACK_SCSV that prevents fallback attacks. u201cDisabling SSL 3.0 support, or CBC-mode ciphers with SSL 3.0, is sufficient to mitigate this issue, but presents significant compatibility problems, even today. Therefore our recommended response is to support TLS_FALLBACK_SCSV. This is a mechanism that solves the problems caused by retrying failed connections and thus prevents attackers from inducing browsers to use SSL 3.0. It also prevents downgrades from TLS 1.2 to 1.1 or 1.0 and so may help prevent future attacks,u201d Moller wrote in a blog post. The new attack affects a wide range of software, including OpenSSL, which has had more than its share of issues in recent months. Molleru00a0on Tuesday submittedu00a0a patch for the 1.0.1 branch of OpenSSL that adds support for the TLS_FALLBACK_SCSV mechanism. Green said that the death of SSLv3, which is 15 years old, is long overdue and that the disclosure of the POODLE attack should hasten that end. u201cThe only reliable fix is to disable SSLv3 completely on servers and on clients. People should have done this long ago, but it appears that if you do this you break big swaths of the Internet. So weu2019ll have to see what actions sites and browser vendors take now,u201d he said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38396b6cefc42b00294d0d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Openwall 3.1 Released With Fixes for Shellshock, POODLE Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openwall-3-1-released-with-fixes-for-shellshock-poodle-attack/110186/", "Date" : "January 5, 2015 , 11:42 am", "Article" : "The maintainers of the Openwall security enhanced Linux distribution have released a new stable version, which includes fixes for a number of serious vulnerabilities, such as the Shellshock Bash bug and the flaw in SSLv3 that leads to the POODLE attack. Openwall is designed to be a small, compact Linux distribution for servers, appliances and virtual appliances and much of the code thatu2019s packaged with the distribution undergoes a source code review. The distribution comprisesu00a0a number of popular open source packages, including OpenSSL. u201cThe primary approach used is proactive source code review for several classes of software vulnerabilities. However, because of the large amount of code, thereu2019s a certain level of u2018importanceu2019 for a software component or a part thereof to be audited. Currently, only pieces of code which are typically run with privileges greater than those of a regular user and/or typically process data obtained over a network are audited before the corresponding software component is included. This covers relevant code paths in many of the system libraries, all SUID/ SGID programs, all daemons and network services,u201d the Openwall site says. Openwall, also known as Owl, was updated to version 3.1, which fixes, not notably, four vulnerabilities in OpenSSL. One of those bugs is the SSLv3 fallback problem that allows the POODLE attack to succeed. That issue involves the tendency of Web servers trying to negotiate an SSL session to fallback to an older version of the secure protocol if a session fails. In some cases, attackers can force a connection to fail and then, if the server falls back to SSLv3, an outdated version of the protocol, exploit that to recover protected data. Owl 3.1 also includes an update to the Bash package that fixes the Shellshock vulnerability. Thatu00a0flaw allows an attacker to remotely attach a malicious executable to a variable that is executed when Bash is called. Image from Flickr photos of Jon Bunting. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839746cefc42b00294d1d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Seven Things to Watch for in 2015", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/109921/109921/", "Date" : "December 31, 2014 , 9:00 am", "Article" : "P4ssw0rds got you down? POODLEs Bashing you over the head giving you Heartbleed? Well, bad puns aside, 2014 was a rough year and you can surely expect more of the same in 2015u2014with a few new twists. Hackers will still chase credit card numbers and point-of-sale systems, but theyu2019ve got their eye on health care data and you can bet on more commodity cybercrime tools showing up in APT attacks. Your best response? Encrypt everything, win with privacyu2014and for heavenu2019s sake, stop shaming victims. Hereu2019s a look at seven things to watch in 2015:  Healthcare Data is the New Credit Card Number If you believe the data coming out of underground sites, credit card numbers have flooded the market driving the price of a stolen card down. Whatu2019s in is identity data and credentials. And the most vulnerable subset of personal information is health care information. As with any rush-to-market, the conversion of paper records to electronic is likely to leave gaping holes ripe for a hungry community of hackers who can turn a quick profit with information that can be used for fraud, insurance scams and illicit drug purchases. Move Over Heartbleed, Bash, POODLE Where is the next big Internet-wide bug hiding and when will this cockroach show itself? Unanswerable questions today, but be sure that there will be more of them in 2015. The myth of open source software packages being more secure has been shattered by the litany of badness uncovered in OpenSSL, Bourne Again Shell and other protocols. These projects have, contrary to popular belief, relatively few eyeballs looking at code and even less money funding these initiatives. The end result is the row of Heartbleed, Shellshock and POODLE exploits that organizations will have to contend with for months to come.  The Blurring Line Between Crime and State Espionage Why are we shocked when we hear about APT gangs pulling off attacks against chemical companies, utilities and the like using a banking Trojan? Rather than burn an expensive zero-day vulnerability in an attack against a high-value target, using a commodity exploit against a commodity bug almost always yields the same results. Industrial targets in particular seem to be particularly lax understanding web-based vulnerabilities and patching gear because of unacceptable downtime. With the source code for Carberp, Zeus and other nastiness available online, this distinction figures to go away in 2015. An End to Victim Shaming Can the security industry put on its big-boy pants and stop blaming and shaming enterprise security organizations that are victimized in hacks and breaches? Hereu2019s a dose of reality: While the research and vendor community can afford to study tomorrowu2019s problems, security and network managers are still too busy putting out yesterdayu2019s fires to worry about what some Russian APT gang is doing in the Middle East. Theyu2019re fighting a short-sheeted budget, absurd industry compliance demands, and users who canu2019t get past logging into Outlook Web Access with u201cp4ssw0rdu201d as a password. How about from now on, we wag our fingers and shake our heads at those who deserve it: Criminals.  Win With Privacy Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Twitter et al have done a noble, albeit, self-serving job in petitioning the government for more transparency about government requests for user and customer data. Privacy is a thinly veiled differentiator for these technology giants. How about the industry going all the way and competing aggressively on the privacy of their web-based services? We should see more companies in 2015 encrypt everything, store nothing and follow Appleu2019s lead with iOS 8 and engineer products so that itu2019s impossible for the provider to comply with intrusive data requests. Retail, Retail, Retail Donu2019t expect point-of-sale malware to back off any time soonu2014not because exploiting old POS systems and the Windows XP servers holding them up are suddenly going to get better. No, itu2019s because their window of opportunity is rapidly closing down. Granted the switchover to chip-and-PIN credit cards will be slow, there is a soft October 2015 deadline where liability shifts by law from the banks to whomever does not support chip-and-PIN or EMV in a transaction. While chip-and-PIN isnu2019t a cure for credit card fraud, it does put attackers using point-of-sale malware on notice that their favorite weapon may be on life support.  Cruising and Browsing A Bad Match u00a0Chris Valasek and Charlie Miller have created a cottage industry out of car hacking. For two years, theyu2019ve been more than a passing curiosity at hacking conferences with their research looking at the soft spots inside modern automobiles outfitted with Bluetooth and other means of connectivity. Theyu2019ve even made for some good TV with a backseat driving exhibition where they took control of a vehicleu2019s steering and braking. While these proof-of-concept types of exploits are neat, the real risk is closer than we know as car builders are starting to outfit vehicles with full-fledged web browsers. The 2015 Volvo V60 T6, for example, promises a full browser built into the dash. So letu2019s not be so quick to dismiss car hacking as a novelty; it could soon be a click away. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839aa6cefc42b00294d6c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Researcher Takes Wraps off Two Undisclosed Shellshock Vulnerabilities in Bash", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/researcher-takes-wraps-off-two-undisclosed-shellshock-vulnerabilities-in-bash/108674/", "Date" : "October 3, 2014 , 5:00 am", "Article" : "The Bash bug has kept Linux and UNIXu00a0administrators busy deploying a half-dozen patches, worrying about numerous Shellshock exploits in the wild, and a laboring over a general uncertainty that the next supposed fix will break even more stuff. Researcher Michal Zalewski, a longtime bug-hunter, has been front and center on some of the Bash research and last week said he had found two additional bugs in the Bourne Again Shell, details of which heu2019d kept to himself until yesterday. Zalewski took the wraps off the vulnerabilities, one of which, CVE-2014-6278, mimics the original vulnerability reported Sept. 24 but affects only systems patched against the original Bash vulnerability, CVE-2014-6271. u201cSystems that relied solely on the original fix will be vulnerable to attacks and need to be updated again,u201d Zalewski said, adding however, that systems running a patch released by Red Hat engineer Florian Weimer should be immune. Like the original vulnerability, CVE-2014-6278 allows an attacker to remotely drop executable code by exploiting a weaknesses in environment variables in Bash, which is the most common command line shell used by Linux, UNIX and Mac OS X servers. u201cThe internal parser invoked by bash to process the specially encoded function definitions passed around in environmental variables had a small problem: it continued parsing the code past the end of the function definition itself u2013 and at that point, flat out executed whatever instructions it came across, just as it would do in a normal bash script,u201d Zalewski explained on his lcamtuf blog. u201cGiven that the value of certain environmental variables can be controlled by remote attackers in quite a few common settings, this opened up a good chunk of the Internet to attacks.u201d A simple test, Zalewski said, would be to run the following code from a Bash shell: Zalewskiu2019s second bug, CVE-2014-6277, is less interesting than his other vulnerability, he said. u201cCVE-2014-6277 is an exploitable memory corruption bug that alters the internal state of the program and can be turned into an exploit that permits remote code execution,u201d Zalewski said. u201cIt is perhaps less u2018interestingu2019 than the other find, CVE-2014-6278, because it requires a degree of finesse to leverage in an attack u2013 certainly more than [CVE-2014-6278] or the original bug.u201d The original Bash vulnerability has now been public for more than a week, though some were given a two-week head start under embargo. While Linux distributions pushed patches out the door fairly quickly, there were immediate suspicionsu2014which were confirmedu2014that the patches were incomplete. Fellow Google researcher Tavis Ormandy uncovered the first problem in the original patch that could be exploited in limited circumstances, Zalewski said. Immediately a new CVE was issued, CVE-2014-7169, and new patches developed. Weimer and Todd Sabin of Red Hat then uncovered a buffer overflow vulnerability that would be difficult to exploit, again resulting in a new identifier, CVE-2014-7186. Another bug, CVE-2014-7187, was then uncovered by Weimer and Sabin, again difficult to exploit, Zalewski said. Patches from Bash maintainer Chet Ramey and Weimer were released that stemmed the tide against a number of publicly disclosed exploits that were in circulation. All of this happened within 48 hours of the first Bash disclosure and in advance of an anticipated patch from Apple for three versions of OS X, all of which were possibly incomplete as well. u201cAt that point, Florianu2019s patch seemed just like a good idea (and had been adopted by some Linux distributions as a defense-in-depth), but we had no conclusive evidence that people who have used just the original fix (or the followup fixes for CVE-2014-7169) are vulnerable to any specific, comparably serious bugs,u201d Zalewski said. Shellshock, like Heartbleed before it, has Internet-wide consequences and poses a number of patching challenges because so many hidden functions rely on Bash. A number of security companies have reported exploit code in the wild, some of it harvesting bots for DDoS attacks, while others are merely trying to comprehensively enumerate the number of vulnerable systems without much luck. u201cAll remote code execution vulnerabilities essentially permit the attacker to take control of the affected systems. Less ambitious attackers may leverage them just to take control of a large number of systems to use in a DDoS attack and settle for that, but there is nothing about the underlying bash bugs that makes them uniquely suited for the job,u201d Zalewski said. u201cThe defining characteristics of the original bash bug are that it affected a very significant number of systems and that it could be exploited with remarkably serious consequences in an unusually simple way. It is also somewhat unusual in that it cropped up in an unexpected place.u201d The Bash vulnerabilityu2019s ubiquity has also upped the ante and will likely inspire further scrutiny of other core infrastructure. u201cThe tricky part about this bug is that nobody was expecting that bash may be doing complex parsing of environmental variables, so we didnu2019t even have this attack surface mapped out,u201d Zalewski said. u201cIn contrast to this, everybody is worried about the next big bug in OpenSSH, Apache, OpenSSL, etc.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839ba6cefc42b00294d7e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Goto Aside, GnuTLS and Apple Bugs Are Not The Same", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/goto-aside-gnutls-and-apple-bugs-are-not-the-same/104626/", "Date" : "March 5, 2014 , 2:24 pm", "Article" : "The similarities between the GnuTLS bug and Appleu2019s goto fail bug begin and end at their respective failure to verify TLS and SSL certificates. Otherwise, theyu2019re neither siblings, nor distant cousins. The GnuTLS bug is very different, though like Appleu2019s infamous goto fail error, it will also treat bogus digital certificates as valid. u201cIt allows someone to impersonate a trusted website, which as far as TLS/SSL goes is the attackeru2019s Holy Grail,u201d said cryptographer Matthew Green of Johns Hopkins University. u201cThis one was more of a dumb coding mistake, whereas Apple could have been a cut-and-paste error.u00a0It looks like [GnuTLS] failed to cast a return variable correctly. C is hard.u201d In both cases, an attacker with man-in-the-middle positioning can intercept traffic and introduce an invalid digital certificate, which because of shoddy coding errors in both software packages, will be checked off as legitimate. While the goto command appears in the buggy code in both vulnerabilities, the GnuTLS bug veers off in a different direction. Goto fail, for example is a standard C paradigm for error handling. Goto, in this case, is being used correctly, said Melissa Elliott, a security researcher with Veracode. The problem, she said, is related to variable typing and an improper mixing of error codes that led to this mess. Elliott said the faulty code snippet in question is supposed to return either a true or false variable depending on whether the certificate is valid; this paradigm is called Boolean return code. The GnuTLS bug, however, returns specific error codes identified by negative numbers, each signifying something different, she said. u201cThe mistake was that when one of these functions returned an error, it would be treated as though it were Boolean without changing the actual number. Under Boolean rules, anything that is not a zero is u2018true,u2019u201d Elliott said. u201cHence, an error meant to indicate failure would be passed up the chain as u2018trueu2019 (no error) instead of u2018falseu2019 (error).u201d The GnuTLS bug was uncovered during a recent audit requested by Linux distributor Red Hat. GnuTLS is the SSL and TLS implementation used by hundreds of software packages, including many flavors of Red Hat Enterprise Linux, and all Debian and Ubuntu distributions. Core crypto and mail libraries such as libcrypt and libmailutils, and cURL are affected. GnuTLS is not as widely implemented as OpenSSL, nor is it deployed on a mainstream iOS device, for example, but it is well deployed in Linux and open source applications. Elliott said the GnuTLS bug is exploitable in ways other than a man-in-the-middle attack as is the case with Appleu2019s goto fail bug, u201cFor example, if you had someone elseu2019s certificate stored on your personal computer, and a program tried to check that it was valid with reference to the locally trusted CAs (certificate authorities), it could receive the wrong answer,u201d Elliott said. Johns Hopkinsu2019 Green said insufficient code review and testing likely allowed the GnuTLS bug to slip through. u201cThis stuff is hard. Clearly people need to run their TLS implementations through test harnesses and tools that may not exist yet,u201d Green said, adding that decent TLS code scanners are lacking. Elliott agreed. u201cIt is distressingly easy to accidentally write a bug like this. It does not cause anything to crash. Full-featured C compilers can warn you about this bug, but the false positive rate (that is, instances where it canu2019t possibly do any harm) is high enough that most programmers are inclined to ignore them,u201d Elliott said. u201cUnfortunately, this is security-sensitive code, so the consequences of missing the one important warning in a list of benign ones can be catastrophic.u201d GnuTLS issued an advisory, confirming the vulnerability and urges users to upgrade to the latest GnuTLS version 3.2.12 or 3.1.22 or to apply a patch for GnuTLS 2.12x. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839ba6cefc42b00294d7f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Critical Infrastructure Companies Continue to Patch Heartbleed", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/critical-infrastructure-companies-continue-to-patch-heartbleed/106125/", "Date" : "May 16, 2014 , 11:22 am", "Article" : "Unified Automation issued a security advisory warning that its OPC UA software developers kit (SDK) for Windows contains the OpenSSL cryptography library that is vulnerable to Heartbleed. Schneider Electric, another industrial control system (ICS) manufacturer, posted its own advisory with mitigation information for the same bug, which can be introduced by a third party component in its Wonderware Intelligence Security application. Heartbleed was disclosed on April 7; the vulnerability is a missing bounds check in the OpenSSL TLS Heartbeat extension that exposes 64 KB of memory with each response. Replaying the attack can eventually leak credentials, and some researchers have managed to grab private encryption keys. Unified Automation isnu2019t actually fixing anything here. In fact, the maker of industrial control and SCADA systems is merely noting that its Windows OPC UA SDK u2013 under certain circumstances u2013 can be vulnerable to the bug. By default, its C++ and ANSI-based developers kits do not have HTTPS implemented. However, these kits do contain the vulnerable OpenSSL encryption library if HTTPS is enabled. For users deploying HTTPS, United Automation recommends they replace the vulnerable OpenSSL library with a current version (1.01.g or later) in order to mitigate this problem. Schneider Electric on the other hand has worked with a third party to ship a fix for the Heartbleed vulnerability in its Wonderware Intelligence systems. While the most current version of those systems is not vulnerable and has already been fixed, the company explains in an advisory that a number of users u2013 after applying a recent update u2013 have reinstalled a third-party component known as Tableau Server. That component is vulnerable to OpenSSLu2019s Heartbleed flaw. Therefore, Schneider Electric and the makers of Tableau Server have worked together to mitigate the bug in their components. Operators running Tableau Server versions 8.0.6 through 8.0.9 and 8.1.0 through 8.1.5 will need to implement these patches in order to resolve the potentially serious bug. Digi and Siemens have implemented similar patches to remedy Heartbleed in their ICS equipment in recent weeks. You can find Unified Automationu2019s advisory here and Schneider Electricu2019s here. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839be6cefc42b00294d83" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "GnuTLS Certificate Verification Flaw Exposes Linux Distros, Apps to Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/gnutls-certificate-verification-flaw-exposes-linux-distros-apps-to-attack/104614/", "Date" : "March 4, 2014 , 5:19 pm", "Article" : "GnuTLS, an open source SSL and TLS implementation used in hundreds of software packages including Red Hat desktop and server products and all Debian and Ubuntu Linux distributions, is the latest crypto package to improperly verify digital certificates as authentic. The vulnerability, discovered and reported yesterday by engineers at Red Hat, puts any site or application dependent on GnuTLS at risk for exploit. u201cIt was discovered that GnuTLS did not correctly handle certain errors that could occur during the verification of an X.509 certificate, causing it to incorrectly report a successful verification,u201d Red Hat said in an advisory issued Monday. u201cAn attacker could use this flaw to create a specially crafted certificate that could be accepted by GnuTLS as valid for a site chosen by the attacker.u201d The vulnerability has eerie similarities to a bug reported by Apple in its iOS mobile operating system and OS X for Mac computers. Now known as the goto fail bug, separate patches were issued for the vulnerability which removed SSL certificate checks from the respective operating systems. u201cThis really is as bad as it gets,u201d said Kenneth White, a security expert and principal scientist at Social & Scientific Systems in North Carolina. u201cAn attacker can trivially forge any arbitrary domain and make it appear authoritative and trusted to the requestor. So, not only interception of sensitive channels, but [also] potentially subverting the trusted package signature process as well.u201d White estimates there are more than 350 packages that rely on GnuTLS crypto libraries; in addition to popular Linux distributions, core crypto and mail libraries such as libcrypt and libmailutils, and cURL are affected. u201ccURL (libcurl3-gnutls), in turn is used by the package updating system both for OpenPGP (gnupg2 and gnupg-curltransport), as well as the system package updater itself (apt-transport-https),u201d White said. u201cBut what is especially difficult, is understanding the myriad downstream dependencies, such as XML parsers, etc. In general, Debian & Ubuntu have eschewed OpenSSL for license reasons, so there actually exist Nginx and Apache installs that use gnutls as well.u201d GnuTLS issued an advisory, confirming the vulnerability and that it was discovered during an audit of GnuTLS for Red Hat. It urges users to upgrade to the latest GnuTLS version 3.2.12 or 3.1.22 or to apply a patch for GnuTLS 2.12x. Red Hat Enterprise Linux Desktop, HPC Node, Server and Workstation v 6, as well as Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server AUS and EUS v 6.5 are affected, Red Hat said in its advisory. The recent Apple bug brought this issue to the forefront. Apple released a patch on Feb. 21 for iOS and days later for OS X. An attacker with man in the middle positioning on a network could present an invalid certificate that would pass checks normally designed to reject such a cert. The attacker would then be able to monitor communication and network traffic thought to be secure. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839c76cefc42b00294d95" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenVPN Vulnerable to Shellshock Bash Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openvpn-vulnerable-to-shellshock-bash-vulnerability/108616/", "Date" : "September 30, 2014 , 12:47 pm", "Article" : "OpenVPN wasnu2019t immune to the Heartbleed vulnerability in OpenSSL, and itu2019s not going to sidestep Shellshock either. Fredrick Stromberg, cofounder of Mullvad, a Swedish VPN company, reported that OpenVPN servers are vulnerable to Shellshock , the vulnerability in Bash plaguing Linux, UNIX and Mac OS X systems. Stromberg said the attack vector in OpenVPN is particularly dangerous because itu2019s pre-authentication, putting all communication through a supposedly secure tunnel at risk. u201cOpenVPN has a number of configuration options that can call custom commands during different stages of the tunnel session. Many of these commands are called with environmental variables set, some of which can be controlled by the client,u201d Stromberg wrote in a post to Hacker News. u201cOne option used for username+password authentication is u2018auth-user-pass-verify.u2019 If the called script uses a vulnerable shell, the client simply delivers the exploit and payload by setting the username.u201d Gert Doering, speaking on behalf of the OpenVPN open source community version, said that OpenVPN is vulnerable only on systems where /bin/sh points to /bin/bash, or if a script that runs using bash as an interpreter is called explicity. u201cWhat you want to do from OpenVPNu2019s point of view is to ensure that youu2019re not using a 2.2.x version anymore, *and* that you just do not run your scripts using bash (u201c#!/bin/bashu201d) but use a shell that isu00a0better suited to script usage, like ash/dash,u201d Doering said. u201cAlso, always use client certificates, as the username verification script that is the attack vector here is only called after successful verificationu00a0of a client cert. And, of course, update your systems in a timely fashion.u201d Stromberg said the discovery was disclosed to OpenVPN last week. u201cGiven how many users could potentially be affected we reasoned that maximum utility would be achieved by giving VPN providers a heads up before warning everyone,u201d Stromberg wrote. u201cIf you were affected but not informed I apologize.u201d OpenVPN is an open source virtual private network software package. Request for comment on the availability of a fix or workarounds went unanswered prior to publication. Stromberg also discovered that OpenVPN was vulnerable to Heartbleed and that researchers were able to chain together several exploits in order to steal private keys. Since the vulnerability in Bash (Bourne Again Shell) was disclosed last Wednesday, news has been fluid. There are now six distinct vulnerabilities that have been discovered, one as severe as the initial Bash flaw, but all merit watching. A number of patches have been produced, including two within the first 12 hours of discovery last week, and others from major vendors including Apple last night. The vulnerability allows an attacker to take advantage of a vulnerability in the way Bash executes code attached to an environment variable. Google engineer Michal Zalewski, a prolific bug-hunter, urged administrators to apply a patch built by Red Hat engineer Florian Weimer or an upstream version adopted by Bash project engineer Chet Ramey, who pushed out Bash43-027. u201cThis patch changes the encoding bash uses for exported functions to avoid clashes with shell variables and to avoid depending only on an environment variableu2019s contents to determine whether or not to interpret it as a shell function,u201d Ramey wrote in the patch advisory. Zalewski wrote on his blog that he had discovered two new issues in Bash, one a remotely exploitable parsing issue that is exacerbated, he said, because Bash is not usually compiled with ASLR. The other vulnerability, the most severe so far, he said, permits remote code execution on systems that have been patched against the original vulnerability. u201cItu2019s a u2018put your commands hereu2019 type of a bug similar to the original report,u201d Zalewski wrote. To date, a number of exploits have been reported, most of those just scanning the Internet looking for servers running vulnerable versions of Bash. One Perl bot discovered by AlienVault Labs opens a backdoor to a remote command and control server where more commands await. Experts speculate those exploits are trying to recruit bots to carry out DDoS attacks. Other exploits report system configuration data to a remote server or try to drop a remote shell on compromised machines. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839d76cefc42b00294db0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Linux Modules Connected to Turla APT Discovered", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/linux-modules-connected-to-turla-apt-discovered/109765/", "Date" : "December 9, 2014 , 10:26 am", "Article" : "The Turla APT campaigns have a broader reach than initially anticipated after the recent discovery of two modules built to infect servers running Linux. Until now, every Turla sample in captivity was designed for either 32- or 64-bit Windows systems, but researchers at Kaspersky Lab have discovered otherwise. u201cThe attack tool takes us further into the set alongside the Snake rootkit and components first associated with this actor a couple years ago,u201d wrote Kurt Baumgartner and Costin Raiu, researchers with Kasperkyu2019s Global Research and Analysis Team. u201cWe suspect that this component was running for years at a victim site, but do not have concrete data to support that statement just yet.u201d Like its Windows brethren, this version of Turla is a backdoor used to open communication to a command and control serveru2014Kaspersky said it has sink-holed one such domain, which is based on UDP packets, used by one of the Linux modulesu2014for file exfiltration, remote management and remote code execution. Turla has been used in espionage campaigns against municipal governments, embassies, militaries and other industrial targets, primarily in the Middle East and Europe. In August, another component to these stealthy attacks called Epic Turla was disclosed; Epic is a multistage attack in which victims are compromised via spearphishing emails and other social engineering scams, or watering hole attacks. The Epic Turla campaigns combined commodity exploits with zero-day attacks against Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 machines, as well as an Adobe Reader zero dayu00a0have been used to elevate an attackeru2019s privileges on the underlying system. More than 100 websites were reported to be infected in Epic Turla attacks, including the website for City Hall in Pinor, Spain, an entrepreneurial site in Romania and the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Foreign Affairs. All of the sites were built using the TYPO3 content management system, indicating the attackers had access to a vulnerability on that platform. Once compromised, the websites then loaded remote JavaScript that performs a number of tasks, including dropping exploits for flaws in Internet Explorer 6-8, recent Java or Flash bugs, or a phony Microsoft Security Essentials application signed with a legitimate certificate from Sysprint AG. Kasperskyu2019s Raiu and Baumgartner said most of the code in the Linux version of Turla comes from public sources. The backdoor, for example, is based on cd00r, Baumgartner and Raiu wrote. It includes an ELF executable that is statically linked against the GNU C library, an older version of OpenSSL and libpcap, the tcpdump network capture library. The use of the cd00r backdoor enables the attack to go undetected, researchers said, because it does not require elevated privileges while running remote commands. u201cIt canu2019t be discovered via netstat, a commonly used administrative tool. It uses techniques that donu2019t require root access, which allows it to be more freely run on more victim hosts,u201d the researchers wrote. u201cEven if a regular user with limited privileges launches it, it can continue to intercept incoming packets and run incoming commands on the system.u201d Turla was uncovered early this year and researchers also found a connection to the Agent.btz worm which infected U.S. military networks and led to a government mandate banning the use of USB drives. While Agent.btz and Turla share characteristics, no one has linked the authors. Turla uses the same XOR key and log file names as Agent.btz, for example. Kasperskyu2019s Baumgartner and Raiu said that Linux variants were known to exist, but this is the first sample caught in the wild. u201cSome of the malicious code appears to be inactive, perhaps leftovers from older versions of the implant,u201d the said. u201cPerhaps the most interesting part here is the unusual command and control mechanism based on TCP/UDP packets, as well as the C&C hostnameu00a0which fits previously known Turla activity.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839e06cefc42b00294dbb" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Critical Holes in OAuth, OpenID Could Leak Information, Redirect Users", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/critical-holes-in-oauth-openid-could-leak-information-redirect-users/105876/", "Date" : "May 2, 2014 , 1:42 pm", "Article" : "UPDATE u2014 A serious vulnerability in the OAuth and OpenID protocols could lead to complications for those who use the services to log in to websites like Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, Yahoo, and Microsoft among many others. OpenID and OAuth are commonly used authorization protocols.u00a0The protocols are separate but complementary u2014 OAuth issues access tokens to clients by a server, similarly OpenID acts as au00a0decentralized method to allows users to use the same digital identity across the internet. They are perhaps best known as the easiest way for users to log-in to sites using passwords from providers like Google or Twitter without having to worry about the main siteu2019s credentials from being used. The vulnerability, discovered by Wang Jing, a PhD student in mathematics at the Nanyang Technological University in Singapore, could allow attackers to steal personal data from users and redirect them to questionable sites. As Jing points out in a blog entry today, for OAuth 2.0, the attacks could primarily jeopardize the token of site users. If a user were to authorize the login the attackers could then use that to access that useru2019s personal data.u00a0When i comes to OpenID, the attacker could get a useru2019s information directly, as itu2019s immediately transferred from the provider upon request. At the crux of the problem is what Jing has dubbed a u201ccovert redirectu201d vulnerability. An attacker could exploit the affected protocols and via a pop-up message through Facebook for example and trick users into giving up their information on otherwise legitimate websites. On Facebook that information could include a usersu2019 email address, age, location, work history, etc. According to Jing, who described the vulnerability today on his blog, itu2019s loosely modeled on an open redirect vulnerability, which according to OWASP is when an application takes a parameter and redirects users to the parameter value without any validation. In Jingu2019s version of the attack, more or less the same thing is done, but with improper validation u2013 this is because the vulnerable site considers the app associated with it trustworthy. After exploiting OAuth/OpenID, the attacker generates a phishing attack, abuses an actual site to pull the attack off and then the victimu2019s information is sent to the attacker instead of the siteu2019s domain. http://youtu.be/HUE8VbbwUms Jing claims heu2019s contacted a handful of companies who use both OAuth and OpenID to discuss the problem but since itu2019s largely confined to third-party infrastructure, thereu2019s only so much that can be done. Facebook wrote Jing saying they understand the risks associated with OAuth 2.0 but that mandating each app that uses the site to follow a whitelist u201cisnu2019t something that can be accomplished in the short term.u201d That concept, having third-party apps obey a whitelist would help u2013 as Jing points out u201cthen there would be no room for attacksu201d u2013 but is not a feasible or speedy fix. u201cIn the real world, a large number of third-party applications do not do this due to various reasons. This makes the systems based on OAuth 2.0 or OpenID highly vulnerable,u201d Jing wrote. Elsewhere, Jing claims that Google told him they were u201caware of the problem and are tracking it at the momentu201d and that LinkedIn actually indirectly acknowledged the problem back in March, asking that OAuth 2.0 users register their applicationu2019s redirect URLs with the social network by April to u201cenhance securityu201d and better comply with the protocolu2019s specifications. While LinkedIn cannot whitelist the app, by utilizing a callback URL, it makes it sou00a0after authentication the user will always be redirected to the real site and not the one of an attacker. At the end of a video published today the researcher notes that a slew of other sites, some US-based, like Microsoft Live, Github and some global,u00a0like VK, Weibo, Mail.Ru, are also vulnerable to the hole.  u00a0 List of affected sites via Wang Jing,u00a0www.tetraph.com PayPal however, was quick to tell its users Friday this particular vulnerability shouldnu2019t be on their radar. u201cWe have carefully investigated this situation and can tell you that this vulnerability has no impact on PayPal and your PayPal accounts remain secure,u201du00a0James Barrese, the CTO of PayPal said Friday, adding that the company has u201cengineered additional security measuresu201d against theu00a0OAuth2.0/OpenID vulnerability. Jing claims that Microsoft meanwhile conducted an investigation and confirmed that the vulnerability exists but that itu2019s present on a third-party site, different than the one that Jing reported (login.live.com). As the researcher notes simply patching the vulnerability is easier said than done. u201cThey have little incentive to fix the problem,u201d Jing wrote regarding the companies today, u201cOne concern is the cost and the other is that in their view, the host company is responsible for making the attacks appear more credible; therefore, it is not solely their problem.u201d In reality it appears the best short-term fix would be to stop using OpenID/OAuthu00a0entirely until a fix is found. Chris Wysopal, the CTO of Veracode weighed in on the issue Friday, agreed with Wangu2019s findings and warned of future attacks. u201cThis looks to be a very real issue,u201d Wysopalu00a0said, u201cOAuth 2.0 looks vulnerable to phishing and redirect attacks.u201d u201cGiven the trust users put in Facebook and other major OAuth providers I think it will be easy for attackers to trick people into giving some access to their personal information stored on those service,u201d Wysopal said. The issue is a potentially serious one, especially on the heels of the Heartbleed OpenSSL vulnerability. Critics posit that OpenSSL is used on more than half of the SSL-protected Web servers worldwide and many of those users are still scrambling to patch vulnerable applications and change their passwords in the wake of revelations regarding last monthu2019s flaw. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839e26cefc42b00294dc0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Bash Exploit Reported, First Round of Patches Incomplete", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/bash-exploit-reported-first-round-of-patches-incomplete/108550/", "Date" : "September 25, 2014 , 11:41 am", "Article" : "The urgency to patch systems against the Bash zero-day vulnerability has been cranked to 10 after reports of an exploit in the wild have been made public by AusCERT, the Computer Emergency Response Team of Australia. This seems to reflect a similar finding posted by a researcher who goes by the handle Yinette who found a malware sample that points to a bot being distributed by the exploit. Other researchers, including David Jacoby of Kaspersky Lab, right and podcast below, and Robert Graham of Errata Security also cautioned that the Bash vulnerability is wormable and that one is inevitable. Graham, who built an Internet scanner called Masscan, published early results on a search for vulnerable systems that returned 3,000 vulnerable systems on port 80. He said embedded web servers and other services such as DHCP are in real danger. u201cEven though my light scan found only 3000 results, this thing is clearly wormable, and can easily worm past firewalls and infect lots of systems,u201d Graham wrote, adding that he intentionally limited the scope of the scan which included a ping-home command from vulnerable servers to his server. u201cOne key question is whether Mac OS X and iPhone DHCP service is vulnerable u2014 once the worm gets behind a firewall and runs a hostile DHCP server, that would u2018game overu2019 for large networks.u201d The exploit reported by Yinette, meanwhile, has a zero detection rate on VirusTotal and has been given the identifier CVE-2014-6271. Patches were available yesterday from most of the Linux distributions, but already Red Hat has updated an advisory warning that the patch is incomplete and that specially crafted environment variables will execute arbitrary code. A new identifier, CVE-2014-7169, explains this issue in detail. Red Hat said that it will issue a new patch. PODCAST: Digital Underground u2013 David Jacoby on the Bash Exploit Bash, short for the Bourne again shell, is an embedded command-line shell program present on most Linux, UNIX and Mac OS X systems. The problem presented by this vulnerability is that Bash is quietly accessed by various functions, which makes comprehensive patching a massive challenge. The flaw allows an attacker to remotely attach a malicious executable to a variable that is executed when Bash is invoked. u201cItu2019s super simple and every version of Bash is vulnerable,u201d Josh Bressers, manager of Red Hat product security, told Threatpost yesterday. u201cItu2019s extremely serious, but you need very specific conditions in place where a remote user would be able to set that environment variable. Thankfully, itu2019s not common.u201d Some of the more critical instances where the vulnerability may be exposed is on Apache servers for example, using mod_cgi or mod_cgid if either of those scripts is written in Bash. The vulnerability can also be used to bypass ForceCommand in sshd configs, Bressers said. ForceCommand is supposed to limit remote code execution, but exploiting this vulnerability sidesteps that protection. Some Git deployments over SSH would be affected here. The bug was discovered by Stephane Chazelas, and it has already drawn comparisons to the Heartbleed OpenSSL bug. Like Heartbleed, the danger isnu2019t in vulnerable web servers that can be easily found and patched, but in any number of software packages on embedded systems and Internet-facing devices. u201cUnlike Heartbleed, which only affected a specific version of OpenSSL, thisu00a0bashu00a0bug has been around for a long, long time,u201d Graham wrote. u201cThat means there areu00a0lotsu00a0of old devices on the network vulnerable to this bug. The number of systems needing to be patched, but which wonu2019t be, is much larger than Heartbleed.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839e36cefc42b00294dc1" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "PHP Updated to Fix OpenSSL Flaws, Other Bugs", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/php-updated-to-fix-heartbleed-other-bugs/105867/", "Date" : "May 2, 2014 , 10:48 am", "Article" : "The maintainers of PHP have released two new versions of the scripting language that fix a number of bugs, including a pair of vulnerabilities related to OpenSSL.u00a0Versions 5.4.28 and 5.5.12 both contain that important patch, as well as fixes for more than a dozen other vulnerabilities. The fix for the OpenSSL flaws is in both PHP 5.4.28 and 5.5.12. Both versions also include a slew of other bug fixes, one of which is for CVE-2014-0185, a privilege escalation flaw. The bug could allow an attacker to run arbitrary code in some situations. u201cBoth default config and compiled-in defaults of sapi/fpm lead to configurations which easily allow any user with rights to connect to a UNIX socket to run arbitrary code with the permissions of the fpm user,u201d a description of the bug says. u201cA typical scenario for this issue: u2013 shared hosting environment with multiple fpm pools, running with different permissions (user1, user2, u2026) u2013 user1 can easily run code as user2 by pretending to be a FastCGI client and connecting to (e.g.) /var/run/php-fpm.user1.sock.u201d Users of either version of PHP are encouraged to update to the fixed packages as soon as possible to protect themselves against potential attacks. u00a0This story was updated on May 2 to clarify the OpenSSL bugs. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839e66cefc42b00294dc4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "VMware Patches Flaws in ESX, vCenter", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/vmware-patches-flaws-in-esx-vcenter/102619/", "Date" : "October 18, 2013 , 11:03 am", "Article" : "VMware has released a slew of patches that fix vulnerabilities in a number of its products, including vCenter Server, vCenter Server Appliance,u00a0vSphere Update Manager, ESX and ESXi. Some of the flaws can lead to authentication bypass or denial of service on affected products. The most serious vulnerability is a bug in vCenter Server 5.0 and 5.1 that could enable an attacker to bypass the need for valid credentials under some circumstances. In order for the vulnerability to be exploitable, the affected product must be deployed in an Active Directory environment, VMware said. u201cvCenter Server when deployed in an environment that uses Active Directory (AD) with anonymous LDAP binding enabled doesnu2019t properly handle login credentials. In this environment, authenticating to vCenter Server with a valid user name and a blank password may be successful even if a non-blank password is required for the account,u201d the advisory says. u201cThe issue is present on vCenter Server 5.1, 5.1a and 5.1b if AD anonymous LDAP binding is enabled. The issue is addressed in vCenter Server 5.1 Update 1 by removing the possibility to authenticate using blank passwords. This change in the authentication mechanism is present regardless if anonymousu00a0 binding is enabled or not.u201d There also is a session fixation vulnerability in the vSphere Web Client Server through which an attacker could gain privilege escalation. Exploiting the vulnerability requires some knowledge of the target useru2019s session, however. u201cThe VMware vSphere Web Client Server contains a vulnerability inu00a0the handling of session IDs. To exploit this vulnerability, anu00a0u00a0attacker must know a valid session ID of an authenticated user,u201d the VMware advisory says. The vulnerability in ESX and ESXi is a flaw inu00a0hostd-vmdb that could allow an attacker to cause a denial-of-service condition. In order to exploit this flaw, an attacker would need to intercept and modify the management traffic. The company also updated a number of third-party libraries, including OpenSSL, in several of its products. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839ee6cefc42b00294dca" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Siemens Patches Five Vulnerabilities in SIMATIC System", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/siemens-patches-five-vulnerabilities-in-simatic-system/107431/", "Date" : "July 25, 2014 , 1:32 pm", "Article" : "Siemens releasedu00a0an update for two builds of its SIMATIC automation system this week, addressing a quintet of vulnerabilities, four of which are remotely exploitable. The German companyu2019s SIMATIC WinCC, a SCADA system and SIMATIC PCS7, a distributed control system (DCS) are directly affected by the issues, according to an advisoryu00a0fromu00a0the Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT) Thursday. Specifically the problems could result in privilege escalation or help an attacker get unauthorized access to sensitive data if they used a maliciously crafted HTTP request. All of the vulnerabilities are remotely exploitable, save for one particular problem with access permissions on WinCCu00a0in which an attacker would have to have local access to the system to exploit. Siemens technically fixed all of the vulnerabilities in WinCC V7.3, released this week, but PCS7 users will have to wait several months for the next version (V8.1) to incorporate the fixes from the new WinCC version. While thereu2019s no publicly known exploits targeting these vulnerabilities the company is still encouraging anyone running any versions of V7.3 and before to update as soon as possible. Until the next version of PCS7 is out the company has a list of things users can do in the meantime to mitigate these problems. ICS-CERT also points out that the most recent build of WinCC introduces something the company is calling u201cEncrypted Communicationsu201d which it claims will add an u2018extra layer of security to protect the serveru2019s communication.u2019 Siemens is still working on a complete set of patches to remedy four critical vulnerabilities in the way it implements OpenSSL its libraries. The company reported it was prepping updates last week for the flaws, currently being exploited in the wild, that affect half a dozen of its products. The OpenSSL vulnerabilities in products like APE and WinCC OA were patched on Wednesday but the company is still working on patches for ROX 1, ROX 2, S7-1500, and CP1543-1. All of the systems are used primarily throughout the industrial control systems sector to regulate infrastructure belonging to water, wastewater, oil, gas and chemical plants. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839f36cefc42b00294dd0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Major Bash Vulnerability Affects Linux, UNIX, Mac OS X", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/major-bash-vulnerability-affects-linux-unix-mac-os-x/108521/", "Date" : "September 24, 2014 , 3:30 pm", "Article" : "A critical vulnerability in the Bourne again shell, simply known as Bash and which is present in most Linux and UNIX distributions and Appleu2019s Mac OS X, has been discovered and administrators are being urged to patch immediately. The flaw allows an attacker to remotely attach a malicious executable to a variable that is executed when Bash is invoked. u201cItu2019s super simple and every version of Bash is vulnerable,u201d said Josh Bressers, manager of Red Hat product security. u201cItu2019s extremely serious, but you need very specific conditions in place where a remote user would be able to set that environment variable. Thankfully, itu2019s not common.u201d For context, Bash is present everywhere on Linux and UNIX systems, and this bug will invite comparisons to the Heartbleed OpenSSL vulnerability. The Bash bug was discovered by Stephane Chazelas, a Unix and Linux network and telecom administrator. Patches are starting to roll out from the major Linux distributions, Red Hat included, which acted immediately upon learning of Chazelasu2019 discovery once it was posted to the OSS security mailing list. u201cLots of stuff calls Bash and I would bet you there are things in most environments that call Bash and you donu2019t even know theyu2019re doing it,u201d Red Hatu2019s Bressers said. u201cWe did a ton of analysis on various things Red Hat ships that we decided were a high risk. Itu2019s one of those situations where there are infinite variants you have to deal with. Heartbleed, for example, was easy to understand and all were affected the same way.u201d u201cNo two systems are affected the same way here. Upgrade Bash and donu2019t mess around,u201d Bressers said. u201cEven if you think youu2019re OK, youu2019re probably not.u201d Bressers said the vulnerability allows an attacker to create environment variables that include malicious code before the system calls the Bash shell. u201cThese variables can contain code, which gets executed as soon as the shell is invoked,u201d Bressers wrote in a blogpost. u201cThe name of these crafted variables does not matter, only their contents.u201d Some of the more critical instances where the vulnerability may be exposed is on Apache servers for example, using mod_cgi or mod_cgid if either of those scripts is written in Bash. The vulnerability can also be used to bypass ForceCommand in sshd configs, Bressers wrote. ForceCommand is supposed to limit remote code execution, but exploiting this vulnerability sidesteps that protection. Some Git deployments over SSH would be affected here. Red Hat includes links to a diagnostic step that would allow users to test for vulnerable versions of Bash. The patch ensures that executable code is not allowed after the end of a bash function, Bressers said. u201cItu2019s one package, and you donu2019t have restart your system or restart services,u201d Bressers said of the patch. u201cOnce researchers start looking at this, thereu2019s always the fear they will figure something new out. Hopefully not, otherwise we may have to start over.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839f46cefc42b00294dd1" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Bug Bounties Expanding to Individual Developers", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/bug-bounties-expanding-to-individual-developers/105787/", "Date" : "May 1, 2014 , 9:36 am", "Article" : "Bug bounties once were restricted mainly to large software companies such as Mozilla and Google. But the success of these programs has led many other infrastructure and product companies, including Yahoo, Facebook, Barracuda, PayPal and even Microsoft, to launch their own reward systems. Now, the phenomenon has spread to individual developers. Looking at the list of vendors involved in bug bounties, it would seem that the barrier to entry is relatively high. Those are all well-heeled companies with rather large bankrolls, so handing out a few thousand or even tens of thousands of dollars to security researchers isnu2019t a huge deal for them. The rewards for these companies have turned out to be well worth the investment, as theyu2019re getting highly skilled researchers poring over their code without having to pay them salaries and benefits. But what would the returns be for an individual developer with a small project or application who doesnu2019t have a lot of money to invest in a bounty program? The answer wasnu2019t clear, but Ian Dunn decided to find out. Dunn, a WordPress developer, wrote a plugin a few months ago that was designed to modify the workflow of a another plugin that deals with two-factor authentication logins. Not being a security expert, Dunn knew that he wanted some help looking for potential vulnerabilities in the plugin, so he decided to offer a reward to anyone who found a bug and let him know about it privately. u201cGiven the nature of it, I knew that any potential bugs could have significant security implications, so I did my best to test it thoroughly. Iu2019m not a security expert, though, so I still worried that there might be some esoteric vulnerability I had missed,u201d Dunn said voa email. u201cSo, I wrote a post on my blog offering a security bounty for anyone who found a vulnerability and disclosed it to me privately. That actually worked u2014 a colleague of mine found a bug and I released a patch u2014 but itu2019s obviously not an ideal solution, since it only reaches a few people in my circle.u201d Dunn wanted to expand the reach of his reward offer, but he knew he didnu2019t quite have the visibility and influence of Google or Microsoft.u00a0So when he came across the HackerOne bug bounty platform, he thought it was a good fit. Hacker One provides a way for researchers to report vulnerabilities privately and collect rewards from participating vendors, which include Yahoo, OKCupid, CloudFlare and OpenSSL. The rewards vary by vendor, with minimum bounties ranging from a couple of hundred dollars to several thousand. Dunn set his minimum at $25. u201cWhen I heard about HackerOne, it sounded like the perfect solution. Theyu2019ve got a deep pool of researchers who are motivated to find vulnerabilities and disclose them responsibly, and they offer a great set of tools to manage the entire process,u201d he said. u201cI hope to get more eyes on my code, so that any security bugs that slip in can be caught, and also so I can learn from any mistakes I make.u201d Although Dunn is a small fish among some rather large sharks in the bug bounty sea, he already has closed two bugs on HackerOne since he joined last week. He said that heu2019s hopeful other individual developers will follow his lead and offer incentives to researchers. u201cDefinitely. Security is still something that the development community isnu2019t doing a good enough job at, and I think HackerOne can make a huge impact by giving developers access to audits,u201d Dunn said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a006cefc42b00294de4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google to Pay Rewards For Patches to Open Source Projects", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-to-pay-rewards-for-patches-to-open-source-projects/102558/", "Date" : "October 10, 2013 , 8:25 am", "Article" : "Google, one of the first companies to offer a significant bug bounty program, is extending its rewards to researchers and developers who contribute patches to a variety of open source projects and have an effect on the security of the project. The new rewards will range from $500 to $3,133.70, and are the result of the company looking for new ways to improve the security of its core offerings, such as Chrome OS and the Chrome browser. Google has had a vulnerability reward program for those offerings for several years now, and they have attracted a large volume of submissions. The release notes for new versions of Chrome, for example, often credit a litany of external researchers for submitting bugs. The rewards often are in the $1,000 to $3,000 range, but can skyrocket into the tens of thousands for especially serious vulnerabilities. But the extension of the program is an indication of how difficult it can be to secure applications, especially open source projects that rely on code from a variety of sources. So Google will now pay developers rewards for security related improvements to things such as OpenSSL, OpenSSH and BIND. u201cWhether you want to switch to a more secure allocator, to add privilege separation, to clean up a bunch of sketchy calls to strcat(), or even just to enable ASLR u2013 we want to help!u201d Michal Zalewski of the Google security team said in a blog post. u201cWe intend to roll out the program gradually, based on the quality of the received submissions and the feedback from the developer community.u201d The components that are part of the program during the initial phase include: In order to qualify for a reward from Google, the patch submission from the developer has to have a u201cdemonstrable, significant, and proactive impact on the securityu201d of a given component. The program extends to developers who work on the projects as well as external developers who just see a problem they want to help fix. To qualify for a reward, the submitted patch has to actually ship. In addition to the reward of up to $3,133.7, Google may pay out higher rewards for really clever submissions. u201cWe may choose higher rewards for unusually clever or complex submissions; we may also split the reward between the submitter and the maintainers of the project in cases where the patch required a substantial additional effort on behalf of the development team,u201d the rules of the program say. Developers submit their patches directly to the maintainers of a given project, and once the patch actually ships as part of the project, they simply send an email to Google with the details. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a076cefc42b00294ded" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "The White House and Zero Day Sleight of Hand", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/the-white-house-and-zero-day-sleight-of-hand/105752/", "Date" : "April 29, 2014 , 10:50 am", "Article" : "The White House wants you to know that it did not know about the OpenSSL Heartbleed vulnerability before you did. The White House also wants you to know that administration officials donu2019t think stockpiling zero days isnu2019t necessarily good for national security.u00a0Thatu2019s all well and good, except that it mostly doesnu2019t matter. One of the results of the NSA revelations over the course of the last year is that intelligence officialsu2013and even President Obamau2013have been forced to discuss publicly topics that always have been kept under wraps. The most interesting of these for our purposes is the discovery, use and disclosure by the United States government of new vulnerabilities in key software applications. This particular task has been part of the NSAu2019s mission for some time now, and the agency is known to be quite good at it. The NSA has an untold number of researchers working full time to find new vulnerabilities and develop exploits for them. Itu2019s part of the agencyu2019s bag of tricks for collecting foreign intelligence, and in todayu2019s world, itu2019s among the more valuable ones. There are separate teams at the NSA and other intelligence and defense agencies that have the job of exploiting those vulnerabilities, which they do quite well, too. But the NSA also is tasked with protecting U.S. government networks, a dichotomy that has not been lost on critics in the security community who worry about whether the agency prioritizes its defensive or offensive mission. Michael Daniel, special assistant to the president and cybersecurity coordinator, acknowledged that use of zero days is a vital part of the intelligence-collection process and one that the U.S. should not give up easily. u201cDisclosing a vulnerability can mean that we forego an opportunity to collect crucial intelligence that could thwart a terrorist attack stop the theft of our nationu2019s intellectual property, or even discover more dangerous vulnerabilities that are being used by hackers or other adversaries to exploit our networks,u201d he wrote in a blog post yesterday. u201cBuilding up a huge stockpile of undisclosed vulnerabilities while leaving the Internet vulnerable and the American people unprotected would not be in our national security interest. But that is not the same as arguing that we should completely forgo this tool as a way to conduct intelligence collection, and better protect our country in the long-run.u201d Hereu2019s the problem, though: The government doesnu2019t necessarily need to stockpile zero days, because it has a cadre of contractors doing that job in its stead. If the U.S. government decided today to stop all of its internal vulnerability and exploit development, it would have little effect. The contractor community would be right there to fill the void. Many contractors have their own teams of vulnerability researchers and exploit developers and they would be more than capableu2013and more than happyu2013to step in and provide their services to the NSA, CIA and any other agency that had budget dollars to spend. There would be demand and no shortage of supply. The concerning thing about the governmentu2019s zero-day program isnu2019t that it has one; it would be worrisome if the U.S. didnu2019t do this kind of research, because everyone else certainly is. The real issue is how the government handles the vulnerabilities it discovers. Itu2019s not realistic to expect intelligence and defenseu00a0agencies to spend millions of dollars and thousands of man-hours to find vulnerabilities and then disclose them immediately. That would defeat the purpose. But there needs to be a better process than the one we currently have, which is opaque but surely heavily influencedu00a0by intelligence agencies. One of the conundrums of vulnerability research is that thereu2019s no way to know whether the bug you just discovered is in fact new. The population of skilled researchers around the world is sufficiently large that itu2019s possible, if not probable, that someone else has found the same bug and is already using it. Itu2019s tempting to think that youu2019ve discovered a special snowflake, but thereu2019s a good chance someone on the other side of the Web has found the same snowflake.u00a0So the fact that the White House has a u201cdisciplined, rigorous and high-level decision-making process for vulnerability disclosureu201d sounds nice, but itu2019s not enough. As Mike Tyson once said, u201cEverybody has a plan until they get punched in the mouth.u201d U.S. networks are being punched in the mouth every day, and itu2019s cold comfort to know that government officials are carefully considering whether to disclose vulnerabilities that may already be in use against the countryu2019s own assets. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a196cefc42b00294e07" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Threatpost News Wrap, April 25, 2014", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/threatpost-news-wrap-april-25-2014/105695/", "Date" : "April 25, 2014 , 10:00 am", "Article" : "Dennis Fisher and Mike Mimoso discuss the Apple OSX and iOS patches, the continuing OpenSSL Heartbleed soap opera and the Verizon DBIR report.  Download:u00a0digital_underground_152.mp3n  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a1c6cefc42b00294e0b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Third-Party Software Library Risks To Be Scrutinized at Black Hat", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/third-party-software-library-risks-to-be-scrutinized-at-black-hat/107319/", "Date" : "July 22, 2014 , 9:00 am", "Article" : "Enterprise application developers are under real pressures to push projects out the door quickly and cheaply, and each new version certainly has to be better than the last. This forces them to make decisions that, at a minimum, improve efficiencyu2014and also introduce additional risks. Of particular concern is the use of third-party software libraries pulled in to help speed up the development of portals, shopping carts and other business and customer-facing applications. Such libraries have been under increasing scrutiny since the disclosure of the Heartbleed vulnerability in OpenSSL, which had Internet-wide implications on the integrity of online communications and business. OpenSSL is the most high-profile problem of late, but itu2019s certainly not the only one. Hundreds of open and closed source libraries are used, each with their own set of issues that often arenu2019t updated or patched with any consistency. u201cDevelopers are using these things, and whatu2019s not being recognized is that there could be anywhere from 50 to 150 third-party libraries that make up a single application,u201d said Jake Kouns, cofounder and president of the Open Security Foundation which runs the Open Source Vulnerability Database (OSVD). u201cMany companies may have a secure development lifecycle implemented and do a lot of security checking, but at the same time fail to realize that a lot of code from other places is being pulled in and not getting the same level of scrutiny.u201d Kouns, along with Kymberlee Price, director of ecosystem strategy at Synack and former security program manager at BlackBerry and Microsoft, will present research on the use and risks associated with third party libraries at the upcoming Black Hat USA conference in Las Vegas. Kouns and Price will focus on OpenSSL during their talk, but will also identify some of the other less high-profile libraries such as libpng, freetype and ffmpeg, that are most putting application security at risk. u201cI think the lifecycle of a third-party vulnerability is a lot longer than the lifecycle of a native vulnerability,u201d Price said. u201cWith the traditional incident response model, the vulnerability is reported to the vendor who identifies it, assesses its impact and releases a fix. When a library such as libpng releases a fix, [a vendoru2019s] customers in IT canu2019t manually update the library in a product. They have to wait for the vendor to update it and the incident response time is vastly extended. It becomes very recursive at that point; the update cycle is essentially doubled. Price and Kouns said developers are hardly proactive about seeking out updated libraries unless thereu2019s a Heartbleed-type event. u201cThe problem is really twofold. You have companies using products they should have never selected; the upfront selection process is basically grab anything thatu2019s available and theyu2019re not doing [security] evaluations,u201d Kouns said. u201cTheyu2019re not looking if this library has been end-of-life or if there are vulnerabilities that have not been updated in a while. Theyu2019re making poor decisions they have to live with in code over a long period of time, and then thereu2019s a lack of monitoring to see if anything has been happening since. Theyu2019re focused on their code and not on any of the other components.u201d Price pointed out as well that libraries that are not updated frequently could also be many versions out of date, to the point that when a Heartbleed happens, there are u201cpainfulu201d architectural changes required, she said. Heartbleed led to a perfect storm for OpenSSL users; the crypto libraries are in hundreds of vendor products, mobile applications, websites and more, and updating to current versions was a challenge on many levels for organizations. In their talk, Kouns and Price are expected to dig into other libraries that are buried in hugely popular online applications and operating systems, ranging from numerous Linux flavors to PlayStation consoles, multiple video games and streaming services such as YouTube, DirectShow and QuickTime, from Google, Microsoft and Apple respectively. u201cIf youu2019re daughter plays the American Girl Doll video game, freetype is in there; FFmpeg is in YouTube,u201d Price said. u201cWeu2019re trying to shine a light on the darker corners of the third-party ecosystem, not just OpenSSL.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a276cefc42b00294e1d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Group Backed by Google, Microsoft to Help Fund OpenSSL and Other Open Source Projects", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/group-backed-by-google-microsoft-to-help-fund-openssl-and-other-open-source-projects/105672/", "Date" : "April 24, 2014 , 10:08 am", "Article" : "After the dust had started to settle in the wake of the OpenSSL Heartbleed vulnerability earlier this month, one of the common sentiments that emerged was that the small group developing and maintaining the software needed some help. And money. And resources. But mostly money. Now, the OpenSSL Foundation, along with a number of other open source projects, will be getting some much-needed help from some of the largest tech companies in the industry. A new consortium, known as the Core Infrastructure Initiative and comprising The Linux Foundation, Microsoft, Facebook, Amazon, Dell, Google and several other large vendors, is putting together a multimillion dollar fund that will be available to help fund various open source projects that are vital to the Webu2019s security and stability. OpenSSL is the first project under consideration to receive funds. The money flowing from the Core Infrastructure Initiative is meant to help open source projects, which often are small and run by volunteers or part-time developers, fund full-time developers, as well as security audits and other key initiatives. u201cMaintaining the health of the community projects that produce software critical to the security and safety of Internet commerce is in everyoneu2019s interest,u201d said Professor Eben Moglen of Columbia Law School, Founding Director of the Software Freedom Law Center. u201cThe Linux Foundation, and the companies joining this Initiative, are enabling these dedicated programmers to continue maintaining and improving the free and open source software that makes the Net work safely for us all. This is business and community collaboration in the public interest, and we should all be grateful to The Linux Foundation for making it happen.u201d And the Heartbleed vulnerability highlighted the importance these projects have and the problem that their lack of resources can present. OpenSSL, for example, is run by volunteers and the project often only gets a few thousand dollars in donations each year. The money from the CII will allow these projects to dedicate full-time resources to development, testing and other tasks. u201cSecurity is an industry-wide concern requiring industry-wide collaboration. The Core Infrastructure Initiative aligns with our participation inu00a0open sourceu00a0and the advancement of secure development across all platforms, devices and services,u201d said Steve Lipner, partner director of software security at Microsoft. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a276cefc42b00294e20" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Chrome for Android Update Fixes Critical URL Spoofing Bug", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/chrome-for-android-update-fixes-critical-url-spoofing-bug/107288/", "Date" : "July 17, 2014 , 12:38 pm", "Article" : "The latest update to Chrome on Android u2013 pushed yesterday u2013 fixes two bugs, including a critical flaw in the browser that could have let an attacker trick a user into visiting a malicious site. The problem, marked high priority by Google, was discovered by Japanese app developer Keita Haga. The bug, which netted the researcher a $3,000 bug bounty from Google, could have let an attacker remotely spoof a seemingly valid URL in the browseru2019s Omnibox and trick users into thinking any site of the attackeru2019s choosing was legitimate. The issue is similar to a problem that Haga found in Appleu2019s Safari browser in iOS last fall. That bug gave an attacker the ability to spoof an arbitrary URL via a specially crafted web site. Apple fixed the issue through improved URL tracking when it pushed out iOS 7 last September. That makes five URL spoofing bugs in five different browsers over the years for Haga. According to the Open Source Vulnerability Database, in addition to both the Chrome and Safari bugs, Haga discovered similar bugs in Yahoou2019s browser for Android and the lesser-known browsers Sleipnir and jigbrowser+. The latest iteration of Chrome, 36.0.1985.1222 u2014 the 36th stable release for Android, also fixes a bug with the browseru2019s same origin policy (SOP). Google security expert Michau0142 Zalewski once called SOP u201cperhaps the most important security concept within modern browsers.u201d The functionality helps restrict how a document or a script loaded from one origin can interact with a resource from another origin. Without it users could easily be subjected to Cross Site Request Forgery or Cross Site Scripting attacks. Hu00e5vard Molland, a Norwegian developer with Opera, discovered a way to bypass SOP on older versions of Chrome that Google went on to fix in this recent version. For what itu2019s worth, the latest update also lets websites that arenu2019t optimized for mobile devices render text with better accuracy, addresses issues from OpenSSL 1.0.1h, andu00a0brings back Google doodles to the new tab page along with a cornucopia of other minor bug fixes. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a2e6cefc42b00294e28" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Heartbleed Highlights Crypto Pitfalls", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-heartbleed-highlights-crypto-pitfalls/105628/", "Date" : "April 23, 2014 , 9:36 am", "Article" : "There is no shortage of bad advice online about cryptou2013or anything else, for that matter. And the recent mess involving the OpenSSL heartbleed vulnerability has brought out plenty of advice on building, implementing and repairing cryptosystems, but experts say that the fundamental truths about how to do these tasks hasnu2019t changed much. Cryptosystems are the foundation of the security for much of the Internet. Protocols such as SSL/TLS help secure communications between users and banks, e-commerce sites and other services that rely on confidentiality. The crypto code in those systems is, like all code, fragile and subject to all kinds of outside influences. That advice hasnu2019t changed. If anything, itu2019s become even more important. u201cNeveru00a0invent your own primitives or protocols. Cryptographic protocols are fiendishly difficult to get right; even pros often get them wrong. Encryption algorithms are even harder to design. Itu2019s certainly true that there have been very few known attacks on bad crypto by hackers not working for a major government. But u2018fewu2019 is not the same as u2018noneu2019u2014think of WEPu2014and many commercial sites have been targeted by governments,u201d Steve Bellovin, professor of computer science at Columbia University, wrote in a post on the topic. The second point there is a key one. Crypto is implemented all over the place, and in a lot of places you might not expect. One of the things that the heartbleed fiasco has shown is that OpenSSL and its many cousins in the crypto world have spread far and wide on the Internet, which is a good thing. But it also means that the attack surface is potentially huge when a major bug such as heartbleed emerges. Vulnerable implementations could be virtually anywhere, and researchers have shown that to be true in the last few weeks. The other part of the issue is that crypto attacks have continued to advance over the years, with new variants and innovative techniques emerging regularly. And with crypto code running in more and more places, the opportunities to make mistakes are increasing by the day. u201cCrypto code, though, is special; there are precautions that need to be taken that are irrelevant anywhere else. Consider things likeu00a0timing attacks: if youu2019re using RSA but havenu2019t implemented it with all due paranoia, an attacker can recover your private key just by seeing how long it takes you to respond to certain messages. There areu00a0cache timing attacks: if the attacker can run programs on the same computer as your crypto code (and this isnu2019t a preposterous notion in a world of cloud computing), itu2019s possible to figure out an AES key by watching what cache lines are busy during an encryption or decryption operation,u201d Bellovin said. Of course the question, as always, is what other hidden crypto flaws on the level of heartbleed are lurking out there. The answer is almost certainly u201cplentyu201d. As Bellovin said, crypto code is still code and it has all of the natural fragilities and inherent problems that normal code has, with the added fun of it being critical for security. That code is written and implemented by humans, and we all know how that story ends. Image from Flickr photos of Rachael Townes.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a326cefc42b00294e2a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Fixes Serious SSL Issue in OSX and iOS", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/apple-fixes-serious-ssl-issue-in-osx-and-ios/105631/", "Date" : "April 22, 2014 , 3:47 pm", "Article" : "Apple has fixed a serious security flaw thatu2019s present in many versions of both iOS and OSX and could allow an attacker to intercept data on SSL connections. The bug is one of many that the company fixed Tuesday in its two main operating systems, and several of the other vulnerabilities have serious consequences as well, including the ability to bypass memory protections and run arbitrary code. The most severe of the vulnerabilities patched in iOS 7.1.1 and OSX Mountain Lion and Mavericks is an issue with the secure transport component of the operating systems. If an attacker was in a man-in-the-middle position on a useru2019s network, he might be able to intercept supposedly secure traffic or change the connectionu2019s properties. In a u2018triple handshakeu2019 attack, it was possible for anu00a0attacker to establish two connections which had the same encryptionu00a0keys and handshake, insert the attackeru2019s data in one connection, andu00a0renegotiate so that the connections may be forwarded to each other,u201d the Apple advisory says. The vulnerability affectsu00a0OS X Mountain Lion 10.8.5, OS X Mavericks 10.9.2, as well as iOS 7.1 and earlier. The bug joins a list of serious problems that have affected SSL in recent months, most notably the OpenSSL heartbleed vulnerability disclosed earlier this month. Among the other flaws Apple patched in its new releases are a number other severe vulnerabilities. For OSX Mavericks users, the two most concerning issues are a pair of buffer overflows that could lead to remote code execution. One of the bugs is in the font parser and the second is in the imageIO component. The upshot of the vulnerabilities is that opening a malicious PDF or JPEG could lead to arbitrary code execution. u201cSet-Cookie HTTP headers would be processed even if theu00a0connection closed before the header line was complete. An attackeru00a0could strip security settings from the cookie by forcing theu00a0connection to close before the security settings were sent, and thenu00a0obtain the value of the unprotected cookie,u201d Apple said in its advisory. OSX also contains two separate vulnerabilities that could enable an attacker to bypass ASLR, one of the key exploit mitigations built into the operating system. One of the flaws is in the IOKit kernel while the other is in the OSX kernel. The IOKit kernel ASLR bypass also affects iOS 7.1 users. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a366cefc42b00294e30" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "CloudFlare Launches Bug Bounty Program", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cloudflare-launches-bug-bounty-program/105594/", "Date" : "April 21, 2014 , 3:45 pm", "Article" : "As the OpenSSL heartbleed saga unfolded over the last couple of weeks, one of the companies that was at the forefront of figuring out the scope and effects of the problem was CloudFlare. The company put up a challenge server, asking researchers to hit it with the heartbleed exploit to determine whether private SSL keys really could be leaked via the exploit. (Spoiler alert: they can.) And now, building on the back of that interaction with the research community, CloudFlare is launching a new vulnerability disclosure program in conjunction with the HackerOne bug-bounty platform. CloudFlare is part of the newer wave of infrastructure and platform companies that are offering rewards to researchers who responsibly disclose vulnerabilities. Most of these organizationsu2013such as Yahoo, Google, PayPal, Facebook and othersu2013pay out monetary rewards to researchers who meet their conditions. CloudFlare isnu2019t giving researchers money, but rather a one-year professional subscription to the companyu2019s service, recognition on its site and an exclusive t-shirt. u201cWe spent a lot of time considering the best way for us to manage a vulnerability reporting program, including evaluating several crowd-sourced solutions. We chose to partner with HackerOne to power this program because not only have they streamlined the disclosure process, but we also agree with their vulnerability disclosure philosophy. They have also partnered with Nginx, PHP, Yahoo, OpenSSL and a range of security-minded companies,u201d Jamie Tomasello of CloudFlare wrote in a post announcing the new program. u201cPreviously, we did not have a dedicated external reporting channel for vulnerabilities. HackerOne, also referred to as the Internet Bug Bounty program, is essentially a platform for facilitating and tracking bug bounty programs and disclosed vulnerabilities. A number of the major vendors with such programs use HackerOne, and the system enables anyone to see when vulnerabilities have been reported and track their progress up through payment of a reward. To qualify for CloudFlareu2019s reward program, researchers need to report a vulnerability in the companyu2019s main site, cloudflare.com, or in its stopthehacker.com site. The companyu2019s customersu2019 sites arenu2019t in scope for the program. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a3a6cefc42b00294e35" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Oracle Gives Heartbleed Update, Patches 14 Products", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/oracle-gives-heartbleed-update-patches-14-products/105576/", "Date" : "April 21, 2014 , 1:55 pm", "Article" : "As the dominoes continue to fall around Heartbleed, Oracle is doing its best to keep users apprised of its ongoing efforts to patch software that may be vulnerable to the OpenSSL vulnerability. In a document updated early this morning Oracle gave its customers five separate updates regarding: Most of the updates given by Oracle refer to Heartbleed not by its buzzy nickname but by its official Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures number, CVE-2014-0160. More than 100 products u2013 managers, gateways, switches and systems, etc. u2013 were ruled safe by the company, mostly because theyu00a0donu2019t run a version of OpenSSL that was ruled vulnerable to the CVE-2014-0160 instability. Elsewhere developers at the company are reportedly still looking into whether or not 10 different products, notably those that use the companyu2019s Art Technology Group and Corente technology, are vulnerable to Heartbleed. Information for those products is still forthcoming. Fourteen products, mostly those that rely on MySQL, Oracleu2019s Big Data Appliance and its Mobile Security Suite have been patched so far. The company is posting as soon as each product is remedied and then linking to their respective support sections. Conversely, 11 products, including some builds of Java ME and five iterations of its Communications suite, are branded as u201clikelyu201d vulnerable but no fixes are yet available. Lastly, the company claims its still unsure of how Heartbleed affects products that rely on its Cloud computing technology but that itu2019s u201cinvestigating the implications of this issue across the Oracle stack.u201d The bulk of cloud service products, including its Public Cloud, Managed Cloud Services and Cloud for Industry, are free of vulnerabilities but other services have been deemed u201cunder investigation.u201d Oracle points out that the document should be considered as fluid and will continue to be updated as fixes and further mitigation instructions become available. Until then the patch and vulnerability information should be taken on an u201cAS-ISu201d basis. End users who deploy a variety of Oracle products on their networks have no doubt had their hands full with patches as of late. The Heartbleed update comes just a few days after the companyu2019s regularly scheduled quarterly Critical Patch Update. That update resolved more than 100 security issues across Java SE, along with the companyu2019s Database and Fusion Middleware. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a3e6cefc42b00294e3a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenVPN Warns Customers of CSRF Bug in Access Server Desktop Client", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openvpn-warns-customers-of-csrf-bug-in-access-server-desktop-client/107262/", "Date" : "July 16, 2014 , 11:39 am", "Article" : "OpenVPN is advising users of its Desktop Client to upgrade as soon as possible to avoid attacks against a CSRF vulnerability that can allow remote code execution. The vulnerability lies inu00a0a product that the company no longer supports and considers obsolete. An attacker could exploit the vulnerability if a user running a vulnerable version visits the attackeru2019s malicious site. Researchers at SEC Consult in Austria discovered the vulnerability and reported it to OpenVPN back in May. u201cThe OpenVPN Access Server u2018Desktop Clientu2019 consists of two parts, a Windows service that offers an XML-RPC API via a webserver on localhost and a GUI component that connects to this API,u201d the SEC Consult advisory says. u201cThe XML-RPC API is vulnerable to Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF). Using the API commands an attacker can: unmask a victim (e.g. by disconnecting an established VPN connection), perform MITM attacks (by connecting the victim to an u2018evilu2019 VPN server), execute arbitrary code with SYSTEM privileges (by adding a VPN profile that executes code).u201d OpenVPN provides several different VPN and security services, but the only one affected by this vulnerability is the companyu2019s Desktop Client for its Access Server, an SSL VPN for a variety of platforms. The vulnerability is only in the Windows versions of the software. u201cAll Access Server customers using the u2018Desktop Clientu2019 app for Windows should upgrade immediately to the OpenVPN Connect client.u00a0 The u2018Desktop Clientu2019 is obsolete and is no longer maintained or available for download. This client contains a CSRF (Cross Site Request Forgery) vulnerability that can allow remote code execution by a malicious web site,u201d OpenVPN said in its advisory to customers. u201cIt is also bundled with an older version of OpenSSL that has not received recent OpenSSL security updates.u00a0 This advisory only applies to the OpenVPN Access Server u2018Desktop Clientu2019 app for Windows, and does not affect OpenVPN Connect, Private Tunnel, or community builds of OpenVPN for Windows.u201d u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a3e6cefc42b00294e3b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Heartbleed and the Value of CRLs", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-heartbleed-and-the-value-of-crls/105572/", "Date" : "April 21, 2014 , 12:02 pm", "Article" : "One of the consequences of the drama around the OpenSSL heartbleed vulnerability is that security experts have begun taking a hard look again at the certificate revocation process and whether it actually protects users or gives them any visibility into the validity of a given certificate. In a lot of cases, the answer is probably no. A key mechanism in the certificate authority system is the ability of CAs to revoke certificates. This is necessary for a number of reasons, many of which have to do with a certificate being stolen or compromised in some way. Thatu2019s one of the worries with the heartbleed vulnerability, because a successful attack on a vulnerable server could allow the attacker to steal the secret key associated with the serveru2019s certificate. With that key, the attacker could impersonate the vulnerable site. So sites that were running vulnerable OpenSSL installations have been breaking the relationship between their certificate and their old public key and getting a new public key. But, as security researcher Adam Langley of Google points out, the old certificates still work, so the attacker with the old private key could still use the certificate. Browsers for years have had a mechanism built in that allows them to check to see whether a specific certificate is still valid. If itu2019s been revoked, the browser receives a signal and the user will get a warning about the certificate being invalid. The protocol this process uses is OCSP (online certificate status protocol), which will give the browser a signed assertion that tells the browser whether the certificate is still good. But if the browser doesnu2019t get a response from the OCSP server, the browser has to decide whether to accept the certificate in question or reject it. Langley said that virtually everyone defaults to accepting all certificates, for a few reasons, but that itu2019s essentially a useless choice. He gives the example of an attacker who is able to intercept all of a victimu2019s traffic. u201cIf youu2019re worried about an attacker using a revoked certificate then the attacker first must be able to intercept your traffic to the site in question. (If they canu2019t even intercept the traffic then you didnu2019t need any authentication to protect it from them in the first place.) Most of the time, such an attacker is near you. For example, they might be running a fake WiFi access point, or maybe theyu2019re at an ISP. In these cases the important fact is that the attacker can intercept all your traffic, including OCSP traffic. Thus they can block OCSP lookups and soft-fail behaviour means that a revoked certificate will be accepted,u201d Langley wrote in an essay encouraging users to disable certificate revocation checking in their browsers. There are a number of other attack scenarios Langley outlines, including a nation-state attacker who can intercept all of a victimu2019s traffic or a lower-level attacker who can only intercept specific portions of it. u201cThatu2019s why I claim that online revocation checking is useless u2013 because it doesnu2019t stop attacks. Turning it on does nothing but slow things down. You can tell when something is security theater because you need some absurdly specific situation in order for it to be useful,u201d Langley wrote. There a lot of considerations that go into the decision by a browser vendor or user to implement or enable the certificate revocation check, and itu2019s not a simple binary choice, said Robert Hansen, director of product management at WhiteHat Security, and a long-time security researcher. u201cThe major reason the browsers turned it off is because of performance. The CAs canu2019t be relied upon to run their own OCSP servers,u201d Hansen said. u201cLetu2019s say everyone turns it on, the problem from one perspective is that it will totally break some things, like the denial-of-service attacks on OCSP servers. But which do you think is worse? It depends on your perspective. Would you rather be denied service or be man-in-the-middled?u201d Google Chrome doesnu2019t use CRL (certificate revocation lists) as the default mechanism for checking the status of certificates, unlike most other browsers. Instead, Google employs a tactic that monitors the status of certificates on high-value sites, and pushes daily updates to Chrome users. So if a certificate for a prominent site is revoked, Chrome users, via the automatic update feature, will get that information within a day or so. u201cItu2019s called the CRLSet and itu2019s not complete, nor big enough to cope with large numbers of revocations, but it allows us to react quickly to situations like Diginotar and ANSSI. Itu2019s certainly not perfect, but itu2019s more than many other browsers do,u201d Langley wrote. u201cA powerful attacker may be able to block a user from receiving CRLSet updates if they can intercept all of that useru2019s traffic for long periods of time. But thatu2019s a pretty fundamental limit; we can only respond to any Chrome issue, including security bugs, by pushing updates.u201d Hansen said that, as in many cases, the CAs themselves end up being part of the problem. u201cIt should be a prerequisite that a CA be able to have an OCSP server up one hundred percent of time. It should be as reliable as DNS,u201d he said. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a416cefc42b00294e3d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "u2018Overblownu2019 LibreSSL PRNG Vulnerability Patched", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/overblown-libressl-prng-vulnerability-patched/107245/", "Date" : "July 16, 2014 , 8:25 am", "Article" : "The OpenBSD project late last night rushed out a patch for a vulnerability in the LibreSSL pseudo random number generator (PRNG). The flaw was disclosed two days ago by the founder of secure backup company Opsmate, Andrew Ayer, who said the vulnerability was a u201ccatastrophic failure of the PRNG.u201d OpenBSD founder Theo de Raadt and developer Bob Beck, however, countered saying that the issue is u201coverblownu201d because Ayeru2019s test program is unrealistic. Ayeru2019s test program, when linked to LibreSSL and made two different calls to the PRNG, returned the exact same data both times. u201cIt is actually only a problem with the authoru2019s contrived test program,u201d Beck said. u201cWhile itu2019s a real issue, itu2019s actually a fairly minor one, because real applications donu2019t work the way the author describes, both because the PID (process identification number) issue would be very difficult to have become a real issue in real software, and nobody writes real software with OpenSSL the way the author has set this test up in the article.u201d Ayeru2019s contention is that the PRNG in LibreSSL, which is a fork of OpenSSL, is unsafe to use after a fork; forking, he said, creates a clone of the parent process and as a result, the PRNG will generate identical output in the parent and child processes unless the PRNG is reseeded, Ayer said. u201cLibreSSL attempts to detect when a fork occurs by checking the PID,u201d Ayer said. u201cIf it differs from the last PID seen by the PRNG, it knows that a fork has occurred and automatically reseeds. This works most of the time. Unfortunately, PIDs are typically only 16 bits long and thus wrap around fairly often. And while a process can never have the same PID as its parent, a process can have the same PID as its grandparent. So a program that forks from a fork risks generating the same random data as the grandparent process. This is what happens in the fork_rand program, which repeatedly forks from a fork until it gets the same PID as the grandparent.u201d This scenario, De Raadt said, is unrealistic. u201cThe way it is forking is just not what any program using libssl/libcrypto does. The u2018dangeru2019 only exists in that specific choice of operations, yet no piece of software does that,u201d de Raadt said. u201cThis test program has been specifically constructed to exercise this completely synthetic test. u00a0The authoru2019s test program is holding all the pidu2019s captive so that this situation happens. It is simply unrealistic. u201cThe OpenSSL random number generator has a number of far worse practices in it,u00a0which we have decided to not bring to light further; our decision was to remove it and replace it, and we will do better,u201d de Raadt said. Ayer conceded in an email to Threatpost last night that the test case depends on an unusual program structure and the u201cnormally unlikelyu201d scenario of the grandchild process getting the same PID as its grandparent. u201cHowever, there are a lot of programs that use OpenSSL and itu2019s impossible to say for sure that none of them have this structure. u00a0Itu2019s also imprudent to say that an attacker wonu2019t find a way to manufacture the duplicate PID scenario in a real system. Time and time again, potential security vulnerabilities are dismissed as being impractical, only for clever attackers to find a way to exploit them in practice a few years later,u201d Ayeru00a0said. u201cAlso, since LibreSSL is billed as a drop-in replacement for OpenSSL, Iu00a0think itu2019s a bug if you can demonstrate a program that performs safely under OpenSSLu2019s guarantees but not when used with LibreSSL. u00a0You canu2019t anticipate all the unusual ways a library might be used, and in ansecurity-sensitive library the consequences of breaking guarantees can be severe.u201d LibreSSL 2.0.0 and 2.0.1 were released over the weekend and support a number of platforms beyond OpenBSD, including several Linux flavors, as well as Mac OS X and Solaris. The OpenBSD Foundation announced its intention to fork OpenSSL in April and spent considerable time before then and since cleaning up volumes of code that bloated OpenSSL. LibreSSL surfaced after the disclosure of the Heartbleed OpenSSL vulnerability. The release of these early versions of LibreSSL was meant to generate the kind of feedback Ayer delivered, de Raadt and Beck said. u201cThis is exactly what I was aiming for with my blog post,u201d Ayer said. u201cIn general, I really like the work the LibreSSL devs are doing. u00a0I think itu2019s in the true open source spirit that weu2019re having this discussion, and it should ultimately lead to better security for all.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a466cefc42b00294e47" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "ICS-CERT Warns of Heartbleed Vulnerabilities in Siemens Gear", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ics-cert-warns-of-heartbleed-vulnerabilities-in-siemens-gear/105554/", "Date" : "April 18, 2014 , 1:20 pm", "Article" : "A number of ICS products from Siemens and Innominate are vulnerable to the OpenSSL heartbleed flaw, some of which do not have updates available yet. The list of products affected by the heartbleed vulnerability continues to grow by the day, with OpenVPN being one of the latest. A researcher on Friday said that he was able to extract a private key from a vulnerable OpenVPN server after hitting it with a large volume of requests over the course of several hours. Now, the ICS-CERT has issued an advisory warning that several products from Siemens and one from Innominate are vulnerable to the heartbleed attack. The mGuard firmware from Innominate, versions 8.0.0 and 8.0.1 are vulnerable to the attack, but the company has issued an update that addresses the flaw. Meanwhile, Siemens has identified a number of its products that contain the heartbleed vulnerability. The list of vulnerable products include: u201cA successful u201cHeartBleedu201d exploit of the affected products by an attacker with network access could allow attackers to read sensitive data (to include private keys and user credentials) from the process memory,u201d the advisory says. By some estimates, OpenSSL is deployed on more than half of the SSL-protected Web servers worldwide, but thatu2019s just one piece of the puzzle. The library also is used in embedded devices, industrial control systems and other systems, some of which are just coming to light now. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a4f6cefc42b00294e53" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Certificate Revocations Shoot Up in Wake of OpenSSL Heartbleed Bug", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/certificate-revocations-shoot-up-in-wake-of-openssl-heartbleed-bug/105526/", "Date" : "April 17, 2014 , 1:50 pm", "Article" : "The after effects of the OpenSSL heartbleed vulnerability continue to spread through the technology industry, nearly two weeks after the details of the flaw were disclosed. One of the latest repercussions is a huge increase in the number of SSL certificates being revoked, as site owners and hosting providers go through the process of replacing vulnerable certificates. Certificate authorities and other organizations maintain certificate revocation lists that browsers can use to determine whether a certificate on a given site has been revoked. Site owners will revoke certificates for a number of reasons, including security problems. Those revocations typically go unnoticed, unless a high-profile site is involved or thereu2019s some event that causes a large number of sites to need to replace their certificates. Enter heartbleed. A good portion of that increaseu2013which saw revocations go from perhaps a few thousand a day to more than 70,000 earlier this monthu2013can be attributed to CloudFlare replacing all of the certificates for sites that it manages. The company was one of the few organizations that got early warning about the OpenSSL bug before the softwareu2019s maintainers revealed the details. u201cAfter learning the full extent of the bug and that it had been live on the Internet for two years, we started an investigation to see whether our private keys and those of our customers were at risk,u201d Nick Sullivan of CloudFlare wrote in a blog post. u201cWe started our investigation by attempting to see what sort of information we could get through Heartbleed. We set up a test server on a local machine and bombarded it with Heartbleed attacks, saving the blocks of memory it returned. We scanned that memory for copies of the private key and after extensive scanning, we could not find a trace of it.u201d CloudFlare then issued a public challenge, asking researchers to see whether they could get the private key from a vulnerable server the company set up. Within a few hours, someone succeeded. And several other people later won the challenge, as well, retrieving the private key. u201cA nagging question is why, when OpenSSL has functions to cleanse memory, are these chunks of keys being found in memory. We are continuing to investigate and if a bug is found will submit a patch for OpenSSL,u201d Sullivan wrote. u201cThe more HTTPS traffic the server serves, the more likely some of these intermediate values end up on the heap where Heartbleed can read them. Unfortunately for us, our test server was on our local machine and did not have a large amount of HTTPS traffic. This made it a lot less likely that we would find private keys in our experimental setting. The CloudFlare Challenge site was serving a lot of traffic, making key extraction more likely. There were some other tricks we learned from the winners about efficiently finding keys in memory.u201d Thereu2019s been some discussion about whether it is practical for an attacker to retrieve the private key of a target server using the heartbleed attack, and Sullivan said he sees it as doable. u201cBased on these findings, we believe that within two hours a dedicated attacker could retrieve a private key from a vulnerable server. Since the allocation of temporary key material is done by OpenSSL itself, and is not special to NGINX, we expect these attacks to work on different server software including non-web servers that use OpenSSL,u201d he wrote. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a526cefc42b00294e57" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Tor Begins Blacklisting Exit Nodes Vulnerable to Heartbleed", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/tor-begins-blacklisting-exit-nodes-vulnerable-to-heartbleed/105519/", "Date" : "April 17, 2014 , 11:40 am", "Article" : "The Tor Project has begun blacklisting exit nodes vulnerable to the Heartbleed vulnerability in OpenSSL. Researcher Collin Mulliner, with the Systems Security Lab at Northeastern University in Boston, published the results of an experiment he conducted using a publicly disclosed Heartbleed proof-of-concept exploit against 5,000 Tor nodes. Mulliner said that 1,045 nodes, or a little more than 20 percent, were vulnerable to the bug. Mulliner said only Tor exit nodes were leaking plaintext user traffic, including host names, credentials and web content. Mulliner conducted his experiment for three days last Friday through Sunday, and his results are a point-in-time snapshot. A post yesterday from Tor Project leader Roger Dingledine on the Tor mailing list said that 380 vulnerable exit keys were being rejected. Heartbleed was publicly reported on April 7. The vulnerability lies in the heartbeat function in OpenSSL 1.0.1 to 1.0.1f which publicly leaks 64 KB of memory to any client or server pinging a web server running the vulnerable crypto library. The memory leaks can disclose in plaintext anything from user credentials to private server keys if the attack is repeated enough. Several researchers have already managed to retrieve private SSL keys in an online challenge from vendor CloudFlare. Speculation is that intelligence agencies and/or hackers may have been exploiting it since November. Mulliner said he did not try to extract private keys from Tor, nor did he think it was possible. Tor promises anonymity to its users by using proxies to pass encrypted traffic from source to destination. Mulliner said he used a random list of 5,000 Tor nodes from the Dan.me.uk website for his research; of the 1,045 vulnerable nodes he discovered, he recovered plaintext traffic that included Tor plaintext announcements, but a significant number of nodes leaked user traffic in the clear.u201d u201cI found a significant amount of plaintext user traffic, complete Web traffic, session IDs; everything you would find if you ran Heartbleed against a normal Web server,u201d Mulliner said. Heartbleed saves attackers the work of setting up their own exit node and waiting for traffic to pass through it. Using Heartbleed, all a hacker would have to do is query a vulnerable exit node to obtain traffic, Mulliner said. Dingledine yesterday published the first list of rejected exit nodes and said those nodes will not be allowed back on the network. u201cI thought for a while about trying to keep my list of fingerprints up-to-date (i.e. removing the !reject line once theyu2019ve upgraded their openssl), but on the other hand, if they were still vulnerable as of yesterday, I really donu2019t want this identity key on the Tor network even after theyu2019ve upgraded their OpenSSL,u201d Dingledine wrote. He added that he hopes others will add to this list as other vulnerable relays are discovered. Tor acknowledged some of its components were vulnerable to Heartbleed in a post to its blog on April 7. Mulliner said it was a fairly straightforward process to write a script to run a Heartbleed proof of concept. u201cAnybody who can get the Python script can play around with it,u201d Mulliner said, adding that there are likely fewer vulnerable Tor nodes now than when he ran his scans last week since some have likely been patched and Tor has begun blacklisting. u201cThe data is dated, but itu2019s a good picture of that point in time.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a5e6cefc42b00294e67" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Oracle Fixes 104 Security Vulnerabilities in Quarterly Patch Update", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/oracle-fixes-104-security-vulnerabilities-in-quarterly-patch-update/105494/", "Date" : "April 16, 2014 , 12:32 pm", "Article" : "Software maker and database management company Oracle yesterday released its quarterly Critical Patch Update. The release resolves more than 100 security vulnerabilities, many of which received high common vulnerability scoring system base scores and should be applied as soon as possible. Products affected by the patch include but are not limited to Oracle Database, Fusion Middleware, Hyperion, Supply Chain Product Suite, iLearning, PeopleSoft Enterprise, Siebel CRM, Java SE, and Sun Microsystems Products Suite, including Oracle Linux and Virtualization, and Oracle MySQL. Last week, Oracle released a list of products affected by the Heartbleed OpenSSL vulnerability, as well as their current status with respect to vulnerable versions of the encryption library. Among the patches that should be prioritized are two bugs in Oracleu2019s database products. The more severe of these two issues could lead to a full compromise of impacted Windows systems, though exploitation would require that an attacker authenticate him or herself. Other platforms like Linux and Solaris are less affected because the database does not extend into the underlying operating system there. The update also closes off 20 Fusion middleware vulnerabilities, the most critical of which is remotely exploitable without authentication and could lead to a wide compromise of the WebLogic Server. Also included in its April release are 37 Java vulnerabilities. Four of those received the highest possible CVSS ratings of 10.0. Oracle urges all user u2013 home users in particular u2013 to apply these patches immediately. The patch update also fixes five vulnerabilities affecting Oracle Linux and Virtualization products. The most severe of these vulnerabilities could affect certain versions of Oracle Global Secure Desktop. u201cDue to the relative severity of a number of the vulnerabilities fixed in this Critical Patch Update, Oracle strongly recommends that customers apply this Critical Patch Update as soon as possible,u201d wrote Oracle security assurance manager, Eric Maurice. Earlier this month, researchers from Security Explorations disclosed more than two dozen outstanding issues with the companyu2019s Java Cloud Service platform. There is no mention of that line of products in the update, so it appears that the company did not resolve those bugs. At the beginning or March, researchers at the London-based computer security firm Portcullis claimed to uncover four bugs in the Oracleu2019s Demantra Value Chain Planning suite of software. The update makes no mention of these vulnerabilities either. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a666cefc42b00294e6f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Fixes 30 Bugs with OS X Mountain Lion, Safari Patches", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/apple-fixes-30-bugs-with-os-x-mountain-lion-safari-patches/102303/", "Date" : "September 16, 2013 , 1:37 pm", "Article" : "Apple pushed a handful of patches late last week and updated its OS X Mountain Lion to 10.8.5, improving u201cstability, compatibility and securityu201d issues and fixing 30 different vulnerabilities in the operating system. The update fixes multiple vulnerabilities in Apache that could have led to a cross-site scripting error and vulnerabilities in BIND that could have led to a denial of service attack. Other fixes, including some in assorted components like PostgreSQL, PHP and OpenSSL fixed errors that could have led to arbitrary code execution, data corruption or privilege escalation problems. Apple also updated its Certificate Trust Policy, adding and removing several root certificates from the list of trusted system roots. Apple also patched up its Installer function, which previously presented a dialog to let the user continue when it encountered a revoked certificate. Now, the dialog has been removed and the system refuses any revoked package. The update also resolved the previously reported sudo vulnerability. An attacker couldu2019ve gained root privileges on a system where sudo, a Linux command that manages user privileges on several types of systems, has been used before. u201cOn OS X, only admin users can change the system clock. This issue was addressed by checking for an invalid timestamp,u201d reads the security document released in tandem with the patches Thursday. Thursday also saw the release of Safari 5.1.10, Appleu2019s flagship browser. A JavaScriptCore patch fixed multiple memory corruption issues, including one where if a user visited a maliciously crafted website, it could lead to an unexpected application termination or arbitrary code execution. 10.8.5 is likely the last update Apple users will see for the companyu2019s u201ccatu201d series (Lion, Mountain Lion, etc) of operating systems. The next iteration of Appleu2019s OS, Mavericks, is slated for release at the end of October. On the security front, Apple has already announced in its Core Technologies Overview (.PDF) that Mavericks will feature more finely tuned Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR), compressed memory, sandboxes and code signing entitlements. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a666cefc42b00294e70" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Yahoo Patches Bugs in Mail, Messenger, Flickr", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/yahoo-fixes-trio-of-bugs-in-mail-messenger-flickr/107079/", "Date" : "July 8, 2014 , 4:49 pm", "Article" : "Yahoo recently patched three remotely exploitable vulnerabilities inu00a0its services that could have let attackers inject malicious script and led to session hijacking, phishing, among other nefarious tricks. The vulnerabilities in Yahoo Mail, Messenger and its Flickr photo-sharing site qualified for bounties from Yahoo. To date, one has been paid through the HackerOne vulnerability disclosure program, a platform the company began using five months ago. To give researchers a new avenue to report vulnerabilities, companies such as Cloudflare and OpenSSL have also begun using the service over the last several months. The first of the three, a persistent script code-inject vulnerability disclosed, affected Yahoou2019s Mail web app and API. Until it was patched at the beginning of June, the hole could have let an attacker upload or attach their own malicious HTML files and send them to other Yahoo users. The main problem is that the app didnu2019t perform proper validation when it uploaded files. Instead, anyone who clicked on theu00a0HTML attachment just loaded the malicious script right away, something that could expose them to persistent client side attacks, phishing, redirects and user session hijacking. The second problem the firm found was in a recent version of Yahoou2019s chat application, Yahoo Messenger. The app lets users share photos, files, and chat but it was a problem with the way version 11.5.0.228 of the app handled SMS messages u2013 it mistakenly processed malicious payloads u2013 that was the issue here. The app validated all numbers, even invalid and malicious ones through a remote host. While the remote host (validate.msg.yahoo.com) acknowledged these with an exception the code was still executed, via HTML, in a new chat window. Ateeq ur Rehman Khan, a member of Vulnerability Labu2019s Core Research Team who found all three vulnerabilities, noted in a write-up of the Messenger issue on Monday that if a hacker wanted to, they could simply copy and paste a specially crafted payload that would bypass the chat appu2019s filter. That payload would go on to trigger code execution and much like the Yahoo Mail issue, lead to session hijacking, phishing, redirects and also open the app up to external malware loads. The latest version of Yahoo Messenger now enforces validation input and forbids the copying and pasting of what it deems u201cmalicious requestsu201d in input fields. The last vulnerability, disclosed on Sunday, plagued both the web app and the API of Yahoou2019s Flickr service. u00a0The issue technically lies in Flickru2019s u2018inviteu2019 mail notification module and could let an attacker send an invitation to someone to use Flickr via email but let them manipulate the messageu2019s body context. While it may look like a normal invitation, an attacker could inject their own malicious script into the email and remotely exploit it on the application-side of the app. Like the other two vulnerabilities, if successfully exploited, the vulnerability could result in session hijacking, account theft, and phishing. Yahoo patched the Flickr issue by implementing a secure parse and encode of the appu2019s vulnerable message body value input. It sounds as if going forward the app will prevent code execution for outgoing mails with vulnerable stored message content. While the Yahoo Mail and Flickr issues took about eight months to patch u2013 they were found last November u2013 it took the Yahoo team nearly a year to patch the Messenger issue, which was first brought to their attention by researchers last July. Khan reported all three bugs to Yahoo via its HackerOne vulnerability disclosure program, a platform the company began using five months ago. To give researchers a new avenue to report vulnerabilities, companies like Cloudflare and OpenSSL have also begun using the service over the last several months. While Khan, whose name appeared on Yahoou2019s bug bounty Wall of Fame before Yahoo switched over to HackerOne, points out that his bugs qualified for a bounty, at this time the sum of only one of them, the Flickr vulnerability, which had a reward of $1,000, has been disclosed. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a666cefc42b00294e71" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Crypto Examination Awaits in Phase Two of TrueCrypt Audit", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/crypto-examination-awaits-in-phase-two-of-truecrypt-audit/105479/", "Date" : "April 16, 2014 , 10:22 am", "Article" : "Phase two of the TrueCrypt audit figures to be a labor-intensive, largely manual cryptanalysis, according to the two experts behind the Open Crypto Audit Project (OCAP). Matthew Green, crypto expert and professor at Johns Hopkins University, said a small team of experts will have to, by hand, examine the cipher suites, key algorithms and random number generators used in the open source encryption software. Green said he hopes to crowdsource experts for the second phase of the audit, attracting people skilled in examining cryptography. u201cWeu2019re still flushing out the idea, but it will be a group of people who are well respected in the industry who have done this type of thing on a smaller scale,u201d Green said, adding he was not yet ready to publicly name them. u201cWe would not be doing this if it were not for these people. Weu2019ve created a series of challenges and weu2019re going to divide them up. Iu2019m sure it will be fairly successful; weu2019re still in the planning stages.u201d ISEC Partners, the consultants who were hired to conduct the first phase of the TrueCrypt audit that looked at the TrueCrypt bootloader and Windows kernel driver, will not be involved in phase two, Green said, adding that the results for the second half of the audit may not be available for a few months. The movement to audit TrueCrypt began last fall, a few months after the Snowden leaks began going public. TrueCrypt, which provides full disk and file encryption capabilities, has been downloaded close to 30 million times, making it a tempting target for intelligence agencies that have been accused of subverting other commercial and open source software. ISEC on Monday released its report on the first phase of the audit and said it found no backdoors in the portions of the software it looked at. There were, however, worrisome vulnerabilities around the quality of the code and build processes. u201cThe good news is that there is nothing devastating in the code,u201d Green said. u201cThe auditors said there were problems in code quality and pointed out other legitimate issues. These are not reasons to stop using it.u201d One of the first concerns leading to suspicions that the Windows binary version of TrueCrypt had been backdoored was a mysterious string of 65,024 encrypted bytes in the header. Experts wondered why these random bytes were there and whether they could be an encrypted password. Adding to the intrigue was that, aside from the fact the Windows package behaves differently than versions built from source code, no one really knew who the developers behind TrueCrypt are. In October, however, some of those concerns were laid to rest when Green and OCAP co-organizer Kenneth White, senior security engineer at Social & Scientific Systems, were contacted by the anonymous developers who endorsed the audit. Also, an independent audit of TrueCrypt conducted by Xavier de Carne de Carnavalet of Concordia University in Canada, was able to reproduce a deterministic compilation process for the Windows version that matches the binaries. He concluded TrueCrypt was not backdoored. u201cWeu2019re not going to say the issue is closed, but weu2019re a lot less panicked about it,u201d Green said. u201cThat doesnu2019t mean there isnu2019t something there, itu2019s just not on my list of things to worry about.u201d The relief with the initial results is that there isnu2019t a widespread bug in the software; while TrueCrypt isnu2019t deployed on a scale of OpenSSL or Apple software, the recent Heartbleed and so-called gotofail iOS bugs have left some in the security community a little shell-shocked. White, for one, is hoping the cryptanalysis turns up equally positive results as in phase one. u201cOur confidence in encryption software is driven by the level of expertise afforded proper peer-to-peer review, by deep experts in the field. And there is a very small group of people who are qualified to conduct this kind of analysis, particularly with the encryption components,u201d White said. u201cWhat they find might be gross errors or might be a trivial single character mistake.u201d While very few of these types of public audits have been conductedu2014perhaps the most high-profile security tool subjected to a public audit was open source private chat application Cryptocatu2014Green and White see the potential for more of these in the future. u201cItu2019s much harder to do than it seems. Itu2019s not just about getting the money and paying people; you have to find people who are interested doing it. Not every firm is interested in doing a public audit,u201d Green said, adding that the TrueCrypt audit is the first of its kind that was crowd funded. u201cWe have a good technical advisory board who were willing to put in the time to make this happen. You need good organization with people whose job it is to do this; you canu2019t do this in your spare time.u201d White said future projects are under consideration, but for now 100 percent of their efforts and funding is going toward the TrueCrypt audit. u201cI think there is a subset of people who had their minds made up before we started, and have no intention of changing. For me, the appeal of this work has been to begin to establish a framework for conducting community-driven security audits and formal cryptanalysis on open source (or, in the case of TrueCrypt, source-available) software,u201d White said. u201cI think if after the final report we can say, u2018We marshaled some of the best minds in the field, and they looked at the code, the crypto, and the implementation and we found [X]u2019 then thatu2019s a victory. As a privacy advocate, Iu2019m obviously hoping for a clean verdict, but as a security engineer, I remain skeptical until the end.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a6c6cefc42b00294e7c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Microsoft Schannel Bug Latest in Long Line of Serious Crypto Flaws", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-schannel-bug-latest-in-long-line-of-serious-crypto-flaws/109321/", "Date" : "November 12, 2014 , 8:02 am", "Article" : "The critical vulnerability in the Schannel technology in Windows that Microsoft patched Tuesday is ripe for exploitation, experts say, and continues the long line of severe vulnerabilities in major SSL/TLS implementations in recent months. Secure Channel, also known as Schannel, is a technology thatu2019s used in Windows to implement SSL and TLS, the main secure communications protocols. The technology is in every supported version of Windows, and it can be exploited remotely by unauthenticated attackers. The company said that the vulnerability was found during a u201cproactive security auditu201d. u201cA remote code execution vulnerability exists in theu00a0Secure Channel (Schannel)u00a0security package due to the improper processing of specially crafted packets. Microsoft received information about this vulnerability through coordinated vulnerability disclosure. When this security bulletin was issued,u00a0Microsoft had not received any information to indicate that this vulnerability had been publicly used to attack customers. The update addresses the vulnerability by correcting how Schannel sanitizes specially crafted packets,u201d Microsoft said in its advisory. In order to exploit the vulnerability, an attacker only needs to control a malicious Web page with the exploit code and have users visit it. The Schannle vulnerability follows in the dubious footsteps of many other SSL/TLS vulnerabilities that have appeared on the landscape in the last couple of years. The leader of the pack in this regard is Heartbleed, the notorious flaw in OpenSSL that threw the security community into a frenzy in the spring. That vulnerability enables an attacker to read the memory of systems protected by vulnerable versions of the software under certain circumstances. This can allow them to steal SSL keys and decrypt protected communications. u201cMicrosoft stated that this vulnerability will allow remote code execution and that it can be used to exploitu00a0servers. Microsoft also assigned this vulnerability an exploitability of u20181u2019, indicating that an exploit is likely going to be developed soon. But other then that, very little has been released publicly about the nature of the vulnerability,u201d Johannes Ullrich of the SANS Institute said in a blog post. u201cMy guess is that you probably have a week, maybe less, to patch your systems before an exploit is released. You got a good inventory of your systems? Then you are in good shape to make this work. For the rest (vast majority?): While you patch, also figure out counter measures and alternative emergency configurations.u201d In June, a critical flaw was discovered in GnuTLS, a popular open-source cryptographic library, that allows an attacker to run arbitrary code. u201cA flaw was found in the way GnuTLS parsed session IDs from Server Hello packets of the TLS/SSL handshake,u201d said Tomas Hoger in anu00a0advisoryu00a0posted by Red Hat. u201cA malicious server could use this flaw to send an excessively long session ID value and trigger a buffer overflow in a connecting TLS/SSL client using GnuTLS, causing it to crash or, possibly, execute arbitrary code.u201d More recently, researchers at Google disclosed a new attack on SSLv3 called POODLE that enables an attacker with a man-in-the-middle position to force a target server to fallback to the weak SSLv3 protocol. If he can then force the user to run some Javascript in his browser, the attacker will eventually be able to decrypt the protected connection. Microsoft also added several new ciphersuites to its TLS implementation in Windows. u201cIn addition to the changes that are listed in the Vulnerability Information section of this bulletin, this update includes changes to available TLS cipher suites. This update includes newu00a0TLSu00a0cipher suitesu00a0that offer more robust encryption to protect customer information. These new cipher suites all operate in Galois/counter mode (GCM), and two of them offer perfect forward secrecy (PFS) by using DHE key exchange together with RSA authentication,u201d the advisory says. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a736cefc42b00294e87" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Research Finds No Large Scale Heartbleed Exploit Attempts Before Vulnerability Disclosure", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/research-finds-no-large-scale-heartbleed-exploit-attempts-before-vulnerability-disclosure/108161/", "Date" : "September 9, 2014 , 11:23 am", "Article" : "In the days and weeks following the public disclosure of the OpenSSL Heartbleed vulnerability in April, security researchers and others wondered aloud whether there were some organizationsu2013perhaps the NSAu2013that had known about the bug for some time and had been using it for targeted attacks. A definitive answer to that question may never come, but traffic data collected by researchers on several large networks shows no exploit attempts in the months leading up to the public disclosure. Researchers from the University of Michigan, the University of Illinois, the University of California at Berkeley , Purdue University and the International Computer Science Institute took a comprehensive look at the way that the Heartbleed vulnerability affected the Internet as a whole in the months since it was disclosed in April, focusing mainly on the response by organizations to patch vulnerable servers and revokeu00a0certificates. As the scope and effectu00a0of the Heartbleed vulnerability set in, security teams scrambled to determine which of their servers were vulnerable to the issue and whether they needed to begin revoking a bunch of SSL certificates, as well. Many of the top sites on the Internet were patched almost immediately after the disclosure, but that didnu2019t extend to the rest of the vulnerable server population. That result also doesnu2019t rule out the possibility that an attacker or attackers may have been doing targeted reconnaissance on specific servers or networks. The researchers also conducted similar monitoring of the four networks, and noticed that the first attempted exploits occurred within 24 hours of the OpenSSL disclosure. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a736cefc42b00294e89" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Heartbleed Saga Escalates With Real Attacks, Stolen Private Keys", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/heartbleed-saga-escalates-with-real-attacks-stolen-private-keys/105436/", "Date" : "April 14, 2014 , 3:34 pm", "Article" : "Heartbleed went from a dangerous Internet-wide vulnerability over the weekend to one with real exploits, real victims and real problems for private SSL server keys. Mumsnet, a U.K.-based parenting website, said it was victimized by hackers exploiting the vulnerability in OpenSSL to steal passwords, as was the Canada Revenue Agency, who reported the loss of social insurance numbers for 900 citizens, according to a BBC report today. Hackers were using the stolen Mumsnet credentials to post messages to the site on Friday, while the CRA said hackers were busy exploiting Heartbleed during a six-hour period before its systems were patched. While experts warned it was possible from the outset to steal credentials and other sensitive information in plaintext, it was thought that stealing private SSL keys that would provide unfettered access to web traffic emanating from a server was a much more difficult proposition. Starting on Friday, however, three researchers had in fact managed to do just that. Russian engineer Fedor Indutny was the first to break the so-called CloudFlare Challenge set up by web traffic optimization vendor CloudFlare. The company had set up a nginx server running an unpatched version of OpenSSL and issued a challenge to researchers to steal the private SSL key. Indutny replayed his attack more than two million times before he was able to steal the key, which he submitted at 7:22 Eastern time on Friday, less than an hour before Ilkka Mattila of NCSC-FI submitted another valid key using just 100,000 requests. Since then, two more submissions were confirmed on Saturday, one by Rubin Xu, a PhD student at Cambridge University and researcher Ben Murphy. The vulnerability is present in OpenSSL versions 1.0.1 to 1.0.1f and it allows attackers to snag 64KB of memory per request per server using its heartbeat function. The bits of memory can leak anything from user names and passwords to apparently private keys if the attack is repeated often enough. A number of large sites, including Yahoo, Lastpass and many others were vulnerable, but quickly patched. Once the vulnerability is patched, old certificates must be revoked and new ones validated and installed. Users, meanwhile, would need to change their passwords for accounts on these sites, but only after the patch is applied, or their new credentials could be stolen as well. Worse, the attacks donu2019t show up in logs and leave no trace behind. Therefore, itu2019s impossible to know whether a private key has been stolen and malicious sites signed by a legitimate certificate key, for example, would appear benign. The story took a strange twist Friday night when Bloomberg reported that the U.S. National Security Agency had been exploiting Heartbleed for two years, according to a pair of unnamed sources in the article. A bug such as Heartbleed could simplify surveillance efforts for the agency against particular targets, but given the arsenal of attacks at its disposal, the NSA might have more efficient means with which to gather personal data on targets. To that end, the agency via the Office of the Director of National Intelligence issued a rare denial Friday night. The memo said the NSA was not aware of the flaw in OpenSSL. u201cReports that say otherwise are wrong,u201d it said. The DNIu2019s office also said the Federal government uses OpenSSL to encrypt a number of government sites and services and would have reported the vulnerability had it discovered it. u201cWhen Federal agencies discover a new vulnerability in commercial and open source software u2013 a so-called u2018Zero dayu2019 vulnerability because the developers of the vulnerable software have had zero days to fix it u2013 it is in the national interest to responsibly disclose the vulnerability rather than to hold it for an investigative or intelligence purpose,u201d the DNI said. Meanwhile, a report in the New York Times on Saturday said that President Obama has given the NSA leeway in using bugs such as Heartbleed where there is a u201cclear national security or law enforcement need.u201d The NSA has thrived on such loopholes, according to numerous leaks made public in the Snowden documents. The presidentu2019s decision was made in January, the Times article said, after he addressed the nation on the governmentu2019s surveillance of Americans. The U.S. government, it was made public in September, had bought a subscription to a zero-day exploit service sold by VUPEN of France. The contract, made public through a Freedom of Information Act request by MuckRock, an open government project that publishes a variety of such documents, shows that the NSA bought VUPENu2019s services on Sept. 14, 2012. The NSA contract is for a one-year subscription to the companyu2019s u201cbinary analysis and exploits service.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a816cefc42b00294e9c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Threatpost News Wrap, April 11, 2014", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/threatpost-news-wrap-april-11-2014/105409/", "Date" : "April 11, 2014 , 12:06 pm", "Article" : "Dennis Fisher and Mike Mimoso discussu2013what elseu2013the OpenSSL heart bleed vulnerability and the doings at the Source Boston conference this week.  Download:u00a0digital_underground_149.mp3  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a886cefc42b00294ea0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "BlackBerry, Cisco Products Vulnerable to OpenSSL Bug", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/blackberry-cisco-products-vulnerable-to-openssl-bug/105406/", "Date" : "April 11, 2014 , 7:37 am", "Article" : "Vendors are continuing to check their products for potential effects from the OpenSSL heartbleed vulnerability, and both Cisco and BlackBerry have found that a variety of their products contain a vulnerable version of the software. BlackBerry on Thursday said that several of its software products are vulnerable to the OpenSSL bug, but that its phones and devices are not affected. The company said its BBM for iOS and Android, Secure Workspace for iOS and Android and BlackBerry Link for Windows and OS X all are vulnerable to the OpenSSL flaw. u201cBlackBerry is currently investigating theu00a0customeru00a0 impact of the recently announced OpenSSL vulnerability. BlackBerryu00a0customersu00a0canu00a0restu00a0assuredu00a0thatu00a0whileu00a0BlackBerryu00a0continuesu00a0tou00a0investigate, we have determined that BlackBerry smartphones, BlackBerry Enterprise Server 5u00a0and BlackBerry Enterprise Service 10 are not affected and are fully protected from the OpenSSL issue. A list of known affected and unaffected products is supplied in this notice, and may be updated as we complete our investigation,u201d the companyu2019s advisory says. The company said in its advisory that many of its products, including its TelePresence Video Communications Server, WebEx Meetings Server, many of its Unified IP phones and several others, are vulnerable. Cisco also said that a far larger list of products are potentially vulnerable and are under investigation. Ciscou2019s Sourcefire Vulnerability Research Team did some testing on the vulnerability and found that on vulnerable systems it could retrieve usernames, passwords and SSL certificates. u201cTo detect this vulnerability we use detection_filter (u201cthresholdu201d) rules to detect too many inbound heartbeat requests, which would be indicative of someone trying to read arbitrary blocks of data. Since OpenSSL uses hardcoded values that normally result in a 61 byte heartbeat message size, we also use rules to detect outbound heartbeat responses that are significantly above this size. Note: you canu2019t simply compare the TLS record size with the heartbeat payload size since the heartbeat message (including the indicated payload size) is encrypted,u201d Brandon Stultz of Cisco wrote in a blog post. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a916cefc42b00294ea9" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Be Ready: Next Internet Bug Wonu2019t Be The Last", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/be-ready-next-internet-bug-wont-be-the-last/109188/", "Date" : "November 5, 2014 , 3:12 pm", "Article" : "BOSTON u2013 Heartbleed, and the rash of Internet-wide bugs that will ultimately define security in 2014, tested the resilience of enterprises worldwide. In turn, resilience has been elevated as a major talking point for companies evaluating their preparedness for the inevitable nextu00a0Heartbleed-type event in 2015 and beyond. Today at the Advanced Cyber Security Center annual conference here, experts well versed in enterprise security policy making and enforcement tackled the topic of preparedness for the unknown, or Left-of-Boom. Heartbleed, as it turned out, wasnu2019t the only stop-the-presses moment for security managers this year. Shellshock and POODLE exposed weaknesses not only in open source and ubiquitously deployed software libraries, but also made it painfully clear in many cases that security organizations no longer have the luxury of simply chasing and cleaning up after the last event. The next one is right around the corner. Experts such as Andy Ellis, chief security officer at Akamai, were thrown headfirstu2014by the Heartbleed vulnerability in OpenSSL at firstu2014into not only rapid response, but also patching, mitigation, cleanup, and communication with the public and customers. It was a lesson in incident response, but also a real-world exercise testing the resilience of a security organization and enterprise, and the vitality of existing processes. u201cI had to deal with six Internet vulnerabilities that are break-the-Internet scale things. We werenu2019t prepared for six of them. I didnu2019t walk into the year saying u2018Iu2019m ready to deal with six,'u201d said Ellis, who took part in a panel with State Street CIO Chris Perretta, HackerOne chief policy officer Katie Moussouris and CyberArk CEO Udi Mokady. u201cThe first one happened and it was a little bit painful. We said that maybe we could tweak and change things a little bit. Thatu2019s being left of boom: learn from your past donu2019t relive the past.u201d Shellshock came on Heartbleedu2019s heels, and while it was a bug in a Linux shell command and not in a crypto library, it did share one important trait: it too was widely exploitedu00a0within hours. But given what Akamai had learned and tweaked during Heartbleed, there was at least the start of a blueprint for dealing with another global vulnerability. u201cWhat can you learn from the past that is sort of normalized to deal with any kind of incident so youu2019re ready for the futureu2013and then test that,u201d Ellis explained. u201cYou make an assumption, and then Shellshock comes along and well, u2018I was totally wrong on what the future might bring and letu2019s adjust again.u2019 That process of iterating and adjusting is important.u201d Perretta, sitting in the CIO seat, is the direct link between technologists and executive management at his organization, and boiling down incidents, internal weak points and potential consequences is his job. u201cWe have to determine a standard of care, present it to management, and it then becomes a commercial decision,u201d he said. u201cTechnicians can lay out the risk and the opportunities, but at the end of the day itu2019s pretty straightforward that this is the standard of care, and not to do it is negligence.u201d Moussoris, meanwhile, brought an industry perspective to the discussion having been responsible for writing Microsoftu2019s coordinated vulnerability disclosure policy and running that program during her seven years with the company. Her view on preparedness and resilience involves embracing security researchers and building means by which they can disclose vulnerability information to affected vendors without harm. u201cWhere I came from, there was this giant untapped herd of resources in the world: they are hackers. These folks are the canaries in the tunnel, and if organizations are open to hearing them versus prosecuting them at first sight, they can be sentinels,u201d Moussouris said. u201cMost think they are in it for profit and are not altruistic, but working at Microsoft, I was able to see human behavior patterns in them that most wanted to do the right thing. Being left of boom means being prepared to receive notification from a friendly hacker who wants to help before something bad happens.u201d Moussouris pointed out that the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act in the U.S. gives many legitimate researchers pause. u201cIf youu2019ve got an online service and if a hacker finds something, technically, theyu2019ve broken that law,u201d she said. u201cThere needs to be a better way for organizations to define what they want from the outside. You canu2019t incentivize hackers to stay quiet, but then encourage them to join a team of defenders.u201d u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a926cefc42b00294eac" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "PHP Fixes OpenSSL Flaws in New Releases", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/php-fixes-openssl-flaws-in-new-releases/106908/", "Date" : "June 30, 2014 , 9:56 am", "Article" : "The PHP Group has released new versions of the popular scripting language that fix a number of bugs, including two in OpenSSL. The flawsu00a0fixed in OpenSSL donu2019t rise to the level of the major bugs such as Heartbleed that have popped up in the last few months. But PHP 5.5.14 and 5.4.30 both contain fixes for the two vulnerabilities, one of which is related to the way that OpenSSL handles timestamps on some certificates, and the other of which also involves timestamps, but in a different way. u201cThis piece of code is the part of a backwards UTCTime parser. It moves 2 positions to the left, and converts those two characters to an int,u201d the bug report says for one of the OpenSSL flaws says. u201cHowever, certs with a validity past 2050 contain GeneralizedTime formatted timestamps allowing 4 characters in the year field instead of the UTCTime this function parses (badly).u201d The second OpenSSL vulnerability lies in the way that PHP handles certain data types for timestamps. A specially craftedu00a0certificate can causeu00a0errors. u201cThe cert was generated by a Windows 2003 server. Note the u201cvalid tou201d time is u201cJun 21 15:59:11 2109 GMTu201d. In openssl.c PHP checks for V_ASN1_UTCTIME, but triggers the warning when the time is V_ASN1_GENERALIZEDTIME. According to a brief search of the openssl source both are valid expressions of a valid from/to time,u201d the report says. Along with the two OpenSSL vulnerabilities fixed in PHP 5.5.14 and 5.4.30, there are a number of other bugs fixed in the releases, many of which are not security related. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a956cefc42b00294eb1" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "What Have We Learned: OpenSSL Heartbleed Bug", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/what-have-we-learned-openssl-heartbleed-bug/105385/", "Date" : "April 10, 2014 , 12:19 pm", "Article" : "Thereu2019s nothing the Internet loves more than a fat, juicy story that it can sink its sharpened, yellowing canines into. And for the security community, the OpenSSL heartbleed vulnerability has been the equivalent of a 72-ounce steak. But an Internet-breaking vulnerability like this one is no good unless we can learn something from it (or at least give it a clever hashtag). So letu2019s have a look at whatu2019s gone down in the last few days and see what lessons we can take from all this. The Internet is brittle. Actually, this isnu2019t a new lesson. The people who think about these things for a living have been saying this for years, or decades, in some cases. But theyu2019ve probably been too kind. The Internet is a fish shack in the Florida Keys propped up on stilts, and the constant battering from the waves and erosion of the sea floor are taking their toll. Itu2019s sort of listing to one side and thereu2019s some barnacles growing on the pilings, but itu2019s still standing. For now. The infrastructure that supports the Internet is fragile and itu2019s dependent upon a small handful of old protocols. And that kind of prey rarely escape the notice of predators for long. The long-term effects may be silent but deadly. OpenSSL is everywhere. Everywhere. By some estimates, itu2019s implemented on about two-thirds of Web sites, large ones, small ones, in-between ones. A u00a0good number of the owners of the sites that use OpenSSL likely have no idea that their sites are affected, because they rely on hosting providers. And letu2019s not forget about the untold number of embedded devices that may have OpenSSL implemented in their firmware. Those devices are much harder to locate, test and patch than a typical Web server is.The really bad news, though, is that we may not know the ultimate effect of this vulnerability for some time, as itu2019s difficult to know whether an attacker has exploited the bug on a given target. We may see data breaches months from now that involve an attack on the OpenSSL vulnerability. And it is also difficult to determine how many sites have patched their systems, without a massive scan. Breaking cryptou2013donu2019t do that. Thereu2019s been no shortage of speculation about the possibility of the NSA having an unspecified capability to break an encryption system such as SSL. But much of what weu2019ve seen from the leaked documents has shown that the agency, like most attackers, relies on implementation flaws and vulnerabilities in the code. They donu2019t need to build a supercomputer in a cave in North Dakota to break a cryptosystem when they can rely on someone making a mistake and get the same result. Human error is much more common than the ability to break an encryption algorithm. The disclosure debate is still a thing. Well, sort of. News of the OpenSSL vulnerability first appeared Monday when the OpenSSL Project posted an advisory with a short description of the problem. Quickly, the scope of the vulnerability began to sink in and researchers realized how many sites, systems and devices could be vulnerable. Then people began wondering why some companies and vendors apparently had early warning about the vulnerability and others didnu2019t get the same courtesy. That discussion went downhill rather quickly. Large-scale vulnerabilities like the OpenSSL bug, by their nature, make it almost impossible to warn every company, site owner or vendor thatu2019s potentially affected. This isnu2019t a flaw in a product with four customers. Itu2019s the whole Internet. Neel Mehta, the researcher who discovered the bug, reported it to OpenSSL, which produced a patch and alerted users. Thatu2019s how things should work. Internet-wide bugs still happen. Vulnerabilities like this one are, thankfully, relatively rare. Major bugs in ubiquitous software happen on a regular basis (see: Web browsers). Weu2019ve seen serious problems in Apache, the DNS system, Microsoft IIS and other software that run large parts of the Internet in the past, and theyu2019ve caused major problems in some cases. The OpenSSL vulnerability has all the makings of that level of vulnerability, given the packageu2019s ubiquity and the potential consequences of a successful exploit against it. We think of systems such as utilities, SCADA and others as critical infrastructure, but, as Dan Kaminsky points out in his essay on heartbleed, there is entirely separate class of software that qualifies for that description. And thatu2019s where the big fish still lie. u201cThe answer is that we need to take Matthew Greenu2019s advice, start getting serious about figuring out what software has become Critical Infrastructure to the global economy, and dedicating genuine resources to supporting that code. u00a0It took three years to find Heartbleed. u00a0We have to move towards a model of No More Accidental Finds,u201d Kaminsky wrote. Image from Flickr photos of Dorothy Finley.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383aa06cefc42b00294ebd" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Difficulty of Detecting OpenSSL Heartbleed Attacks Adds to Problem", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/difficulty-of-detecting-openssl-heartbleed-attacks-adds-to-problem/105354/", "Date" : "April 9, 2014 , 11:58 am", "Article" : "The list of products and sites affected by the OpenSSL heartbleed vulnerability continues to grow, and as security teams implement the patch and dig into the thornier work of revoking certificates, a new problem is emerging: Itu2019s difficult to know whether an attacker has exploited the vulnerability on a given system. The nature of the vulnerability in OpenSSL is such that an attacker can exploit the vulnerability without the site operator knowing. The flaw lies in the way that the OpenSSL library handles the heartbeat extensions for TLS and it exists in many versions of the software. OpenSSL is deployed on a huge number of sites, roughly two-thirds of the Web by some estimates, and although the OpenSSL Foundation has released a fixed version, it could be some time before the majority of sites are patched. Experts say that the ambiguity surrounding exploitation of the OpenSSL vulnerability adds an unwelcome layer to an already troubling security problem. u201cItu2019s a nightmare vulnerability, since it potentially leaks your long term secret key u2014 the one that corresponds with your server certificate. Worse, thereu2019s no way to tell if youu2019ve been exploited. That means the prudent thing to do now is revoke your certificate and get a new one. Weu2019ll see how many people do that,u201d said cryptographer Matthew Green, a professor at Johns Hopkins University. Officials at Mozilla acknowledged this quandary in their advisory on the heartbleed vulnerability, which affected some of the organizationu2019s systems running Firefox Persona and Firefox Accounts. Those systems run on Amazon Web Services using OpenSSL. u201cBecause these TLS connections terminated on Amazon ELBs instead of the backend servers, the data that could have been exposed to potential attackers was limited to data on the ELBs: TLS private keys and the plaintext contents of encrypted messages in transit,u201d Sid Stamm, senior manager of security and privacy engineering at Mozilla, said in a blog post. u201cWe have no evidence that any of our servers or user data has been compromised, but the Heartbleed attack is very subtle and leaves no evidence by design. At this time, we do not know whether these attacks have been used against our infrastructure or not. We are taking this vulnerability very seriously and are working quickly to validate the extent of its impact.u201d The way that the OpenSSL heartbleed vulnerability works, an attacker who successfully exploits the bug can read up to 64KB of memory from a vulnerable machine, per request. Depending upon the circumstances, the attacker may be able to retrieve a serveru2019s private key or other sensitive data. Researchers have confirmed that Android devices running versions 4.1.0 and 4.1.1 also are vulnerable. The heartbeat extension was disabled in Android 4.2. u00a0Image from Flickr photos of Lauren Coolman.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383ab46cefc42b00294ed7" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "IBM: Heartbleed Attacks Thousands of Servers Daily", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ibm-heartbleed-attacks-thousands-of-servers-daily/107936/", "Date" : "August 27, 2014 , 10:23 am", "Article" : "On the one hand, the total number of vendor-reported vulnerabilities are down so far this year. On the other, 2014 was the year of the Heartbleed, the common name for a vulnerability in the nearly ubiquitous OpenSSLu2019s encryption implementation library, which IBM Security Systems characterized as u201cone of the most widespread and impactful security vulnerabilities of all time.u201d Heartbleed is a well-known bug in OpenSSL, a popular open-source protocol used extensively on the Internet to implement SSL and TLS encryption. The vulnerability can be exploited to access and read the memory of systems thought to be protected by encryption, including secret cryptography keys, usernames, passwords and even content. The bug became public knowledge on April 7, but is believed to have existed for at least two years before that. By April 8, a proof-of-concept exploit emerged. While a fix for Heartbleed was prepared and ready for installment by almost immediately, the bug remained a potent one even after it was no longer a zero-day because of the ubiquity of OpenSSL. One-day attacks, IBM explains, can be just as dangerous as zero-day attacks because attackers are racing to exploit a given bug before itu2019s patch is widely implemented. Part of the problem, according to the IBM Threat Intelligence Quarterly report, is that organizations not only needed to patch their own systems, but they had to wait for third-party software vendors to find and fix the bug and then test the fix in the products they used but did not control. IBM says it began seeing attacks targeting the bug on the same day that the exploit PoC emerged. The highest volume of attacks occurred, they say, on April 15 when there were more than 300,000 attacks targeting IBM Managed Security Services (MSS) clients in one day. Attacks slowed down after April 22. However, IBM claims that nearly half of all affected systems remain unpatched and that it sees some 7,000 attacks within MSS each day. u201cOrganizations that had struggled to maintain a current asset database were left blind to which systems were vulnerable and which systems were critical,u201d they said. Conversely, companies that maintained accurate asset databases and incident response plans were able to rapidly deploy patches on vulnerable systems. Not only did they reduce their exposure to Heartbleed, but they will face less risk to similar vulnerabilities moving forward. IBM has six suggestions for preparing for Internet-wide bugs before they emerge: organizations should keep up with threat intelligence; maintain a current ans accurate asset inventory; have a patching solution that covers the entire infrastructure; implement mitigating controls like firewalls, intrusion prevention systems and endpoint protection; use effective detection so it is clear when networks are under attack; and have a clear, broad and thoroughly tested incident response plan in place. IBM also claims that the impact of Heartbleed was increased because OpenSSL is an open-source tool. u201cTypically, attackers first need to identify the code that has been patched in response to a vulnerability. For open-source projects, this is a straightforward task because they can simply review publicly accessible source-code repositories and source-code check-ins relating to the vulnerability. For closed-source applications, they can use a process called u2018binary diffingu2019 to find which parts of the binary code have changed, narrowing it down to changed functions and, eventually, the vulnerable code.u201d For skilled attackers, locating vulnerable open-source code take minutes as opposed to hours for closed source. Once the code is located, the attacker then has to create an exploit. Unfortunately, that part of the process was already taken care of in the case of Heartbleed. More broadly, IBM, whou2019s been tracking vulnerability disclosure since 1997, says the total number of vulnerabilities are down this yearu2013more than 3,900 new security vulnerabilities affecting 926 unique vendors. If that number remains steady, 2014 will be the first year since 2011 in which fewer than 8,000 vulnerabilities are disclosed by vendors. Similarly, the number of vendors disclosing vulnerabilities has decreased year over year; 1,602 vendors reported bugs in 2013 compared to 926 vendors in 2014. During that time, the number of vulnerabilities disclosed by the largest enterprises remains relatively unchanged, accounting for 34 percent of disclosures in 2013 and 32 percent so far this year. Specifically, bugs in content management systems (CMS) seem to be among the most reported this year, accounting for nearly 10 percent of all bugs. Of these CMS vulnerabilities, most exist in plug-ins. This is a problem because the plug-ins are often developed by third parties, and these third parties very often consist of and are maintained by one person or a small group who either donu2019t patch or patch infrequently, IBM says. Therefore, many plug-ins contain unpatched security vulnerabilities that are incredibly tempting to attackers. The Mayhem Virus is one such example. IBM says it sought to compromise web servers through CMS vulnerabilities and then perform brute-force attacks of weak or default credentials. u201cAfter these web servers are compromised, they can be used to serve malware or carry out large-scale, high-bandwidth distributed-denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks against other sites and targets,u201d IBM wrote in its report. u201cFor example, WordPress was used in an amplification DDoS attack in March 2014 that affected more than 162,000 sites.u201d IBM also notes that the critical vulnerability scoring system (CVSS), in which 67 percent of vulnerabilities are medium-severity and 24 percent are high-severity, needs to be updated. u201cThe most obvious example of how some CVSS scores do not always represent true risk and impact to an organization is the Heartbleed vulnerability,u201d they explain. u201cAs mentioned earlier in this report, Heartbleed was disclosed in April 2014, but it had actually existed for two years. This vulnerability received a CVSS base score of 5.0, which falls into the medium-risk levelu2014along with 67 percent of all other vulnerabilities reported during the first half of 2014.u201d u201cHowever, with the number of products impacted, the time and attention IT teams spent patching systems and responding to customer inquiries, as well as the potential sensitivity of data exposed, the true impact of the Heartbleed vulnerability was greater than the CVSS base score would indicate. This also brings to question what other vulnerabilities fell into the medium-risk category (CVSS base score 4.0 to 6.9) that may have been disregarded by organizations, but that also had potential large-scale impacts similar to Heartbleed.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383ab56cefc42b00294ed9" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Dramatic Drop in Vulnerable NTP Servers Used in DDoS Attacks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/dramatic-drop-in-vulnerable-ntp-servers-used-in-ddos-attacks/106835/", "Date" : "June 24, 2014 , 11:39 am", "Article" : "While patching of webservers vulnerable to the Heartbleed OpenSSL bug may have stalled, the same cannot be said about repairs to NTP servers that could be leveraged in devastating amplification attacks. A spate of distributed denial-of-service attacks (DDoS) tore through companies in January and February, some reaching 400 Gbps and keeping critical services offline. Attackers took advantage of a weakness in the Network Time Protocol (NTP) to send copious amounts of traffic to spoofed destinations. The DDoS attacks were cheap and easy to pull off, and garnered the concern of among others US-CERT, which issued an advisory in January at the height of the takedowns. At the time, more than 430,000 servers could be used in attacks; that number crashed by March to just more than 21,000 and by May, a hair over 17,000 servers were still vulnerable, according to research released today by security company NSFocus. u201cItu2019s a huge drop,u201d said Terence Chong, solutions architect at NSFocus. u201cOnce the vulnerability had been discovered, and advisories were put out, organizations managing these open servers took corrective action to patch their servers and bring the software to the latest version.u201d The latest version disabled the monlist feature, or MON_GETLIST command in NTP servers, which are used to synchronize time settings across computers. The feature enables administrators to get a list of the last 600 machines interacting with the NTP server, a classic set-and-forget feature. Attackers were using the feature to forge monlist requests from their targets, which were flooded with UDP traffic. The responses can be amplified to be much larger than the original request and with enough NTP servers returning requests, websites and servers are easily overrun with traffic. Organizations were urged to immediately patch, or manually disable the monlist command, in order to alleviate the problem. And while 95 percent have, the remaining 17,000 servers are still a concern, Chong said. u201cSeventeen thousand is still a lot of servers out there and they may not be patched for a long time,u201d Chong said. u201cIf they havenu2019t been patched yet, it could be because the server is not properly documented or managed, and may not be discovered for quite some time.u201d NSFocus conducted worldwide scans looking for NTP servers in order to collect its data. Chong said the company still observes attacks leveraging a percentage of the remaining unpatched servers, and cautions that while most have been patched, as of May, more than 2,000 remain that have the capability to launch attacks with 700x amplification. u201cAny amplification attacks are a cheap method for DDoS attackers to launch,u201d Chong said. u201cThey can write a script that creates 10x to 500x amplification traffic volume that could bring down a site easily versus the traditional method of using botnets under their control to generate traffic themselves, which takes a lot of effort.u201d In April, Arbor Networks reported data that showed 85 percent of DDoS attacks that topped 100 Gbps were NTP amplification attacks. CloudFlare reported a 400 Gbps NTP amplification attack against one of its customers, topping a 300 Gbps attack against Spamhaus that relied on DNS amplification instead. Chong said itu2019s crucial the remaining NTP servers be patched. NTP servers that also allow source IP address spoofing and do not follow BCP38, a standard that defines how to defeat IP source address spoofing, are also liable to become sources of future DDoS attacks. u201cItu2019s a clever attack. If I generate a script that sends a request every second, imagine the effect of the returning packets,u201d Chong said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383ad66cefc42b00294f05" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Scans Quantify Vulnerable OpenSSL Servers", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/scans-quantify-vulnerable-openssl-servers/106665/", "Date" : "June 13, 2014 , 2:05 pm", "Article" : "Certain mitigating factors made the recent OpenSSL man-in-the-middle vulnerability a notch or two below Heartbleed in terms of criticality. With that in consideration, itu2019s probably no surprise that patching levels for CVE-2014-0224 arenu2019t as high out of the gate as they were for Heartbleed. Ivan Ristic, an application security researcher and director of engineering at Qualys, said that his companyu2019s research arm, SSL Labs, has been running a remote check for servers vulnerable to the bug. This week it ran that same scan against a dataset maintained by SSL Pulse, a global project that monitors the quality of SSL support, in order to quantify the scope of the problem affecting all OpenSSL client versions and version 1.0.1 of the server software. The results werenu2019t entirely discouraging to Ristic, who has done extensive SSL research. The comparison against the SSL Pulse data showed that about 49 percent of servers remain vulnerable, while 14 percent are exploitable. u201cIu2019d say theyu2019re decent,u201dRistic said of the results. u201cThe patching rate is not as good as with Heartbleed, but Heartbleed was much worse in terms of impact, and it was very well covered.u201d The scan revealedu00a0that about 36 percent of servers are running older versions of OpenSSL that are not exploitable. Those servers too, wonu2019t likely be patched in any urgency, Ristic said. Ristic estimates based on the presence of the Heartbleed extension that 24 percent of servers are running vulnerable versions of OpenSSL, meaning that about 38 percent were patched in the first week. The flaw surfaced publicly on June 5, though experts said itu2019s likely been in the OpenSSL codebase since Day 1 in 1998. The bug enables an attacker to remotely exploit clients or servers running vulnerable versions of OpenSSL to intercept and decrypt traffic. An attacker would have to be in a man-in-the-middle position to do so, not to mention that the bug can only be exploited if an attacker is sitting between both a vulnerable client and server. u201cThat just reduces the number of exploitable systems. But Iu2019d say that the attack surface is still pretty big. Thereu2019s probably lots of backend stuff using OpenSSL accessing APIs and such,u201d Ristic said of the mitigating factors. u201cOne decrypted connection means the password is compromised.u201d Adam Langley of Google published an early analysis of the vulnerability pointing the finger at ChangeCipherSpec messages sent during the TLS handshake. u201cThis vulnerability allows an active network attacker to inject ChangeCipherSpec (CCS) messages to both sides of a connection and force them to fix their keys before all key material is available,u201d Ristic said. u201cWeak keys are negotiated as a result.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383aed6cefc42b00294f1f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "VMware Patches ESXi Against OpenSSL Flaw, But Many Other Products Still Vulnerable", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/vmware-patches-esxi-against-openssl-flaw-but-many-other-products-still-vulnerable/106605/", "Date" : "June 12, 2014 , 9:38 am", "Article" : "While the group of vulnerabilities that the OpenSSL Project patched last week hasnu2019t grown into the kind of mess that the Heartbleed flaw did, the vulnerabilities still affect a huge range of products. Vendors are still making their way through the patching process, and VMware has released an advisory confirming that a long list of its products are vulnerable to the latest OpenSSL bugs. The company said in the advisory that there is only a patch available for one of its products right now, ESXi 5.5. VMware sells a huge line of products that includes both clients and servers, which makes the patching process for the most serious of the recent OpenSSL vulnerabilities even more onerous. The critical vulnerability in this group is CVE-2014-0224, a flaw that could enable an attacker to intercept and decrypt traffic between vulnerable clients and a vulnerable server. Both the client and server must be running flawed versions of the software in order for the attack to succeed. VMware said in its advisory that various products are affected differently by the vulnerability, depending upon whether theyu2019re acting as clients or servers. u201cCVE-2014-0224 may lead to a Man-in-the-Middle attack if a server is running a vulnerable version of OpenSSL 1.0.1 and clients are running a vulnerable version of OpenSSL 0.9.8 or 1.0.1. Updating the server will mitigate this issue for both the server and all affected clients,u201d the advisory says. u201cCVE-2014-0224 may affect products differently depending on whether the product is acting as a client or a server and of which version of OpenSSL the product is using.Clients that communicate over untrusted networks such as public Wi-Fi and communicate to a server running a vulnerable version of OpenSSL 1.0.1. can be mitigated by using a secure network such as VPN.u201d The list of other VMware products that are still vulnerable to CVE-2014-0224 and for which no patch is yet available is long, and includes both clients and servers. The companyu00a0said that the patches for these products, which include other versions of ESXi, several versions of vCenter and vSphere, are in the works. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383af96cefc42b00294f2c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Releases Patch for POODLE Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-releases-patch-for-poodle-attack/108875/", "Date" : "October 16, 2014 , 10:29 am", "Article" : "The OpenSSL Projectu00a0has released a new version of the encryption software, which patches several security flaws, including the bug that is exploited by the POODLE attack on SSLv3. The updated versions of OpenSSL come just a couple of days after a trio of researchers at Google revealed the POODLE attack, which allows an attacker to force the use of SSLv3 in some circumstances and eventually decrypt the protected communications between the client and server. To address the issue, OpenSSL has added support for the TLS_FALLBACK_SCSV mechanism, which prevents attackers from being able to force downgrades from TLS to SSLv3. u201cOpenSSL has added support for TLS_FALLBACK_SCSV to allow applications to block the ability for a MITM attacker to force a protocol downgrade,u201d the advisory says. u201cSome client applications (such as browsers) will reconnect using a downgraded protocol to work around interoperability bugs in older servers. This could be exploited by an active man-in-the-middle to downgrade connections to SSL 3.0 even if both sides of the connection support higher protocols. SSL 3.0 contains a number of weaknesses including POODLE (CVE-2014-3566).u201d The updated versions of OpenSSL also include a fix for a high-risk vulnerability in the DTLS SRTP extension that can cause a memory leak. u201cA flaw in the DTLS SRTP extension parsing code allows an attacker, who sends a carefully crafted handshake message, to cause OpenSSL to fail to free up to 64k of memory causing a memory leak. This could be exploited in a Denial Of Service attack. This issue affects OpenSSL 1.0.1 server implementations for both SSL/TLS and DTLS regardless of whether SRTP is used or configured. Implementations of OpenSSL that have been compiled with OPENSSL_NO_SRTP defined are not affected,u201d the advisory says. There also is a patch for a low-risk vulnerability that results from a problem in the u201cno-ssl3u201d build option that could still allow servers to complete an SSLv3 handshake. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383afb6cefc42b00294f2e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Extends Scope of External Bug Bounty", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-extends-scope-of-external-bug-bounty/102962/", "Date" : "November 19, 2013 , 12:17 pm", "Article" : "Microsoft and Google appear to be the primary belligerents in an anti-arms race that pays security researchers to sniff out bugs on the Internet. Yesterday it was Googleu2019s turn to proliferate the scope of its bug bounty program. More robust, high paying, and far reaching bug bounties are good news for everyone u2013 other than the governments and exploit brokers that would rather buy and sell vulnerabilities with little competition. Bug bounties are good for users because they make the Web, computers, and software safer, and they are also good for vendors, because it is cheaper to pay one-off researchers than it is to hire full-time bug-hunters. Google is one of the vanguards of paying bounties to researchers who responsibly disclosed bugs in their products and services. In October though, the company announced its Patch Rewards Program, which offers payments to researcher that disclose bugs in open-source protocols and projects. Initially the list of eligible services were core infrastructure network services like OpenSSH, BIND, and ISC DHCP; core infrastructure image parsers like libjpeg, libjpeg-turbo, libpng, and giflib; open-source foundations of Google Chrome like Chromium and Blink; other high-impact libraries like OpenSSL and zlib; and security-critical, commonly used components of the Linux kernel (including KVM). Now Google is extending that list to include: all the open-source components of Android such as the Android Open Source Project; widely used web servers such as Apache httpd, lighttpd and nginx; popular mail delivery services including Sendmail, Postfix, Exim, and Dovecot; virtual private networking services like OpenVPN; network time, for example, the University of Delawareu2019s NTPD; more core libraries like Mozilla NSS and libxml2; and toolchain security improvements for GCC, binutils, and llvm. Microsoft too has been improving its bounty program in recent months. First it announced that it would pay six-figure sums for particularly critical bugs. Then it added incident response teams and forensics experts who come across active attacks in the wild to the list of candidates eligible for these six-figure rewards. In addition to that, along with Facebook, Microsoft sponsors an Internet bug bounty, similar to Googleu2019s, which rewards researchers for uncovering vulnerabilities in core Internet technologies. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383b0d6cefc42b00294f47" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Threatpost News Wrap, June 6, 2014", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/threatpost-news-wrap-june-6-2014/106510/", "Date" : "June 6, 2014 , 9:54 am", "Article" : "Dennis Fisher and Mike Mimoso discuss the changes in the year since the first stories broke regarding Edward Snowden and the NSA and the new OpenSSL vulnerability.u200b  Download:u00a0digital_underground_155.mp3 Music by Chris Gonsalves  u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383b216cefc42b00294f5e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "New OpenSSL MITM Flaw Affects All Clients, Some Server Versions", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-openssl-mitm-flaw-affects-all-clients-some-server-versions/106470/", "Date" : "June 5, 2014 , 9:30 am", "Article" : "There is a new, remotely exploitable vulnerability in OpenSSL that could enable an attacker to intercept and decrypt traffic between vulnerable clients and servers. The flaw affects all versions of the OpenSSL client and versions 1.0.1 and 1.0.2-beta1 of the server software. The new vulnerability could only be exploited to decrypt traffic between a vulnerable client and a vulnerable server, and the attacker would need to have a man-in-the-middle position on a network in order to do so. Thatu2019s not an insignificant set of conditions that must be present for a successful attack, but in the current environment, where open wireless networks are everywhere and many users connect to them without a second thought, gaining a MITM position is not anu00a0insurmountableu00a0hurdle. Researchers who have looked at the vulnerable piece of code say that it appears to have existed, nearly unchanged, in the OpenSSL source since 1998. u201cThe code changes are around the rejection of ChangeCipherSpec messages, which are messages sent during the TLS handshake that mark the change from unencrypted to encrypted traffic. These messages arenu2019t part of the handshake protocol itself and arenu2019t linked into the handshake state machine in OpenSSL. Rather thereu2019s a check in the code that they are only received when a new cipher is ready to be used,u201d Adam Langley, a researcher on the security team at Google, wrote in an analysis of the vulnerability. u201cHowever, that check (for s->s3->tmp.new_cipher in s3_pkt.c) seems reasonable, but new_cipher is actually set as soon as the cipher for the connection has been decided (i.e. once the ServerHello message has been sent/received), not when the cipher is actually ready! It looks like this is the problem thatu2019s getting fixed in this release.u201d Masashi Kikuchi, the Japanese researcher who discovered the vulnerability, confirmed that the bug had been present in OpenSSL since the first version and that it likely should have been found sooner. u201cThe biggest reason why the bug hasnu2019t been found for over 16 years is that code reviews were insufficient, especially from experts who had experiences with TLS/SSL implementation. If the reviewers had enough experiences, they should have been verified OpenSSL code in the same way they do their own code. They could have detected the problem,u201d Kikuchi said in his explanation of the vulnerability and how he discovered it. u201cFuzzing may have worked. However, as the history (see below) shows, knowledge of TLS/SSL implementation seems vital.u201d Theu00a0new CVE-2014-0224u00a0bugu00a0surfaced two months after theu00a0OpenSSL Heartbleed vulnerabilityu00a0came to light.u00a0That flaw was considered more serious and affected a huge number of diverse systems and clients and administrators and security engineers scrambled to fix it before attackers began taking advantage of it. Heartbleed caused a lot of discussion and debate in the security community and even bled over into the mainstream, albeit not necessarily with the most accurate details. This OpenSSL flaw is serious, as well, but likely wonu2019t cause the same sort of distress. Still, Langley said in his analysis that the vulnerability could have a variety of effects. u201cThe implications of this are pretty complex. For a client thereu2019s an additional check in the code that requires that a CCS message appear before the Finished and after the master secret has been generated. An attacker can still inject an early CCS too and the keys will be calculated with an empty master secret. Those keys will be latched u2013 another CCS wonu2019t cause them to be recalculated. However, when sending the second CCS that the client code requires, the Finished hash is recalculated with the correct master secret. This means that the attacker canu2019t fabricate an acceptable Finished hash. This stops the obvious, generic impersonation attack against the client,u201d Langley wrote. u201cFor a server, thereu2019s no such check and it appears to be possible to send an early CCS message and then fabricate the Finished hash because itu2019s based on an empty master secret. However, that doesnu2019t obviously gain an attacker anything.u201d The vulnerability affects some mobile implementations of OpenSSL, as well. Google has already released an updated version of Chrome for Android to fix this issue in the mobile version of the browser. In addition to the MITM vulnerability, OpenSSL fixed several other flaws in its latest release. Four of those vulnerabilities can be used to cause a denial-of-service, while the remaining one can allow remote code execution. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383b2c6cefc42b00294f6d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "GnuTLS Patches Critical Remote Code Execution Bug", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/gnutls-patches-critical-remote-code-execution-bug/106430/", "Date" : "June 3, 2014 , 12:56 pm", "Article" : "GnuTLS, an open source cryptographic library, was a headliner in March because of a critical certificate verification vulnerability that some erroneously put in the same class as Appleu2019s infamous gotofail bug. The library, used in a number of Linux distributions including Red Hat, Debian and Ubuntu, is back in the spotlight today after it was revealed that a critical vulnerability was recently patched. GnuTLS chief architect and Red Hat engineer Nikos Mavrogiannopoulos released a patch last Wednesday after researchers from Codenomicon, the same firm that reported the Heartbleed OpenSSL vulnerability, said theyu2019d found a remote execution bug in GnuTLS. u201cA flaw was found in the way GnuTLS parsed session IDs from Server Hello packets of the TLS/SSL handshake,u201d said Tomas Hoger in an advisory posted by Red Hat yesterday. u201cA malicious server could use this flaw to send an excessively long session ID value and trigger a buffer overflow in a connecting TLS/SSL client using GnuTLS, causing it to crash or, possibly, execute arbitrary code.u201d Mavrogiannopoulosu2019 patch fixes a coding error in the Server Hello packets; session ID lengths were previously checked to not exceed incoming packet sizes, but were not checked to ensure a maximum session ID length was not exceeded. The bug was fixed in GnuTLS 3.1.25, GnuTLS 3.2.15, GnuTLS 3.3.3 While not on the same plane as the previous GnuTLS vulnerability or gotofail, this one still puts servers at risk ofu00a0remote code execution or a denial of service condition. In March, shortly after Appleu2019s gotofail SSL bug shook the security community, GnuTLS reported and patched a similar bug where a hacker could create a specially crafted certificate that would be accepted by a server running the library and accepted as valid. More than 350 software packages rely on GnuTLS crypto libraries , including core crypto and mail libraries such as libcrypt, as well as a number of Linux distributions. Experts refuted initial comparisons to Appleu2019s gotofail, pointing out that while an attacker in a man-in-the-middle position could intercept traffic and introduce a malicious certificate, thatu2019s where the similarities end. While the goto command appears in the buggy code in both vulnerabilities, the GnuTLS bug is related to improper error handling. The buggy code is meant to return either a true or false variable depending on the validity of the certificate. Instead, it was returning specific error codes, that under Boolean rules, are interpreted as true regardless of whether the error code is a negative. u201cUnder Boolean rules, anything that is not a zero is u2018true,u2019u201d Veracode security researcher Melissa Elliott told Threatpost at the time. u201cHence, an error meant to indicate failure would be passed up the chain as u2018trueu2019 (no error) instead of u2018falseu2019 (error).u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383b326cefc42b00294f77" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Internet Bug Bounty Pays for Bugs in Core Technologies", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/internet-bug-bounty-pays-for-bugs-in-core-technologies/102860/", "Date" : "November 7, 2013 , 2:44 pm", "Article" : "A bounty program begun by a bevy of industry heavyweights, including Microsoft and Facebook, will pay good money to white hats, researchers and even aspiring young hackers who find bugs in any of a dozen technologies central to the vitality and trustworthiness of the Internet. Dubbed the Internet Bug Bounty, the programu2019s aim is to make the Internet more secure and incentivize researchers to turn over bugs rather than exploit them. The bounty will pay out cash reward, with minimum bounties ranging from $1,500 to $5,000, and the sponsor companies will act as intermediaries with the affected vendors. u201cThe Internet Bug Bounty is accessible to a broad pool of security researchers and has the potential to improve security for a wide variety of technology users,u201d said Katie Moussouris, senior security strategy lead, Microsoft Trustworthy Security. u201cThis bounty is a great way to support coordinated disclosure of critical vulnerabilities in shared components of the Internet stack.u201d Along with Microsoft and Facebook, researchers from Google, iSEC Partners and Etsy make up the panel. The bountyu2019s website, hackerone.com, lays out its disclosure policy online, urging researchers to promptly report vulnerabilities and support further investigation into those reports, while asking vendor or open source response teams to transparently address vulnerabilities, publicly recognize bug-finders and never legally threaten researchers. Researchers must report vulnerabilities through the HackerOne platform and the details will not be made public for 30 days, giving the affected response team time to remediate. That deadline can be extended to as many as 180 days, the bountyu2019s rules state, but only in certain unusual cases. If the bug in question is being actively exploited, the bounty team reserves the right to publicly provide remediation details; no bug details remain private beyond six months. u201cIf a Response Team is unable or unwilling to issue a patch, the contents of the Bug Report will become publicly available according to the timelines provided,u201d the rules state. u201cIn no case will the details of a vulnerability be kept non-public beyond 180 days. We believe transparency is in the publicu2019s best interest in these extreme cases.u201d The highest payouts are for application sandbox escape vulnerabilities in products such as Chrome, Internet Explorer, Adobe Reader and Flash on Windows 7, Linux and OS X, and core Internet technologies such as DNS, SSL or crypto protocols. Sandbox bypass exploits have been all the rage this year with hackers taking advantage of weaknesses in Java and other third-party components and browsers to gain control over the underlying system. u201cThe specifics of these [escape] techniques will differ between implementations but typically manifest as a kernel vulnerability, broker vulnerability or logic error,u201d the bounty panel said, adding that implementation bugs should be reported to the vendor and are not eligible for a bounty. u201cYour submission should include why you believe the bug is external to the application itself (e.g., a kernel bug).u201d As for Internet bugs, vulnerabilities should be widespread, vendor agnostic, severe and new, the bounty panel said. u201cThe Internet Bug Bounty panel will award public research into vulnerabilities with the potential for severe security implications to the public,u201d the panel said. u201cSimply put: Hack all the things, send us the good stuff, and weu2019ll do our best to reward you.u201d The other technologies in scope are: OpenSSL ($2,500 minimum bounty); Python ($1,500); Ruby ($1,500); php ($1,500); Rails ($1,500); Perl ($1,500); Apache httpd ($500); Nginx ($500); Phabricator ($300); and Django (unannounced). " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383b386cefc42b00294f7a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Heartbleed Exploitable Over Enterprise Wireless Networks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/heartbleed-exploitable-over-enterprise-wireless-networks/106422/", "Date" : "June 2, 2014 , 3:02 pm", "Article" : "Regardless that the fervor over the Heartbleed OpenSSL vulnerability has died down considerably, patching the bug should remain a top priority for enterprises because researchers continue to find new exploit vectors. The latest takes aim at Heartbleed over wireless networks. A researcher with Portugal-based consultancy Sysvalue has shared details of attacks he calls Cupid in which he has built patches that modify hostapd and wpa-supplicant, two programs that act as wireless access and authentication management points. Hostapd, for example, sets up a configurable access point; itu2019s supported on Linux. Hackers could create a wireless network configuration of their choosing that would allow vulnerable clients to connect to it. Wpa_supplicant, also supported on Linux and Android, is used to connect to wireless networks. u201cMy Cupid patch is a series of modifications to those programs to trigger the vulnerability in order to check for vulnerable clients and servers,u201d researcher Luis Grangeia told Threatpost. Grangeiau2019s attacksu00a0exploit Heartbleedu00a0without establishing a full TLS handshake, sending an illicit heartbeat request right after Client Hello and before any crypto keys or certificates have been exchanged, he said. This behavior, meanwhile, is expressly forbidden in the TLS specification. Heartbleed is a vulnerability in certain OpenSSL implementations. Despite the availability of a patch and encouraging remediation numbers from several sources, attacks have been escalating against VPN infrastructure, critical industrial control systems and others, in addition to vulnerable web servers. Heartbleed is an exploit against a problem in OpenSSLu2019s heartbeat functionality, which if enabled, returns 64KB of memory in plaintext to any client or server requesting a connection. Already, there have been reports of attackers using Heartbleed to steal user names, session IDs, credentials and other data in plaintext if the attack is repeated enough times. More critically, researchers have also been able to piece together enough information to successfully reproduce a private SSL key. Grangeia said he has yet to analyze the memory dumps he was able to collect. u201cMy point in releasing the [proof of concept] code is to get more people working on testing different configurations and analyzing the results,u201d he said. In Grangeiau2019s attack, the TLS connection is not made over TCP, but rather over EAP, a wireless network authentication framework. Some wired networks built on 802.1x and peer-to-peer connections also use EAP; EAP-PEAP, EAP-TLS and EAP-TTLS connect over TLS, he said. u201cTo exploit vulnerable clients, hostapd (with the cupid patch) can be used to setup an u2018evilu2019 network such that, when the vulnerable client tries to connect and requests a TLS connection, hostapd will send malicious heartbeat requests, triggering the vulnerability,u201d Grangeia explained on his website. u201cTo exploit vulnerable servers we can use wpa_supplicant with the cupid patch. We request a connection to a vulnerable network and then send a heartbeat request right after the TLS connection is made.u201d The attacks work on password-protected networks because the vulnerability is triggered before a user would have to authenticate, he said. Grangeia pointed out that the default installations of both wireless programs can be exploited on Ubuntu Linux running a vulnerable version of OpenSSL. He said that Android 4.1.0 and 4.1.1. also ship with a vulnerable version of OpenSSL and use wpa_supplicant to connect to wireless networks, and could be vulnerable as well. Grangeia said he was not able to test the vulnerable versions of Android. u201cThis needs to be tested in practice, as Google (or other phone manufacturers) could have compiled OpenSSL with the heartbeat extensions turned off,u201d he said. In the meantime, enterprise network managers should be double checking their wireless deployments. u201cI actually believe the most serious attack vectors are vulnerable corporate wireless solutions and network access control solutions,u201d he said. u201cVendors should double check their firmware and notify customers, because this vulnerability has the potential to give attackers an open door to their customeru2019s networks.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383b446cefc42b00294f85" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Man-in-the-Middle Flaw Fixed in Ruby", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-man-in-the-middle-flaw-fixed-in-ruby/101109/", "Date" : "June 27, 2013 , 12:04 pm", "Article" : "The maintainers of Ruby have fixed a serious flaw in its SSL client that could have allowed an attacker to conduct man-in-the-middle attacks by spoofing an SSL server. The vulnerability lies in the OpenSSL toolkit thatu2019s built in to Ruby and is present in several versions of theu00a0softwareu00a0from 1.8 through 2.0. An attacker exploiting the flaw could impersonate a trusted SSL server and intercept protected traffic intended for that server. The Ruby maintainers have released patches for the bug. u201cA vulnerability in Rubyu2019s SSL client that could allow man-in-the-middle attackers to spoof SSL servers via valid certificate issued by a trusted certification authority,u201d the Ruby advisory says. u201cWhen a CA a SSL client trusts allows to issue the server certificate that has null byte in subjectAltName, remote attackers can obtain the certificate for u2018www.ruby-lang.org.example.comu2019 from the CA to spoof u2018www.ruby-lang.orgu2019 and do man-in-the-middle between Rubyu2019s SSL client and SSL servers.u201d The vulnerability affects version 1.8 up tou00a01.8.7 patchlevel 374, version 1.9 up tou00a01.9.3 patchlevel 448 and version 2.0 up tou00a0patchlevel 247. An attacker with knowledge of the vulnerability would have the ability to compromise supposedly protected traffic between an SSL server and the Ruby SSL client, a major weakness. Man-in-the-middle attacks are among the more effective methods of gaining access to SSL-protected communications and those kinds of vulnerabilities are especially valuable for attackers of all stripes. Image from Flickr photos of Mael Clerambault. u00a0 u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383bc66cefc42b00295010" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Patches Mass of Security Bugs in OS X and Safari", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/apple-patches-mass-of-security-bugs-in-os-x-and-safari/100881/", "Date" : "June 5, 2013 , 9:51 am", "Article" : "Apple has updated both OS X and its Safari browser, fixing a pile of security vulnerabilities, many of which can be used for remote code execution. The release of OS X Mountain Lion 10.8.4 includes patches for more than 30 bugs, most notably a set of fixes for vulnerabilities in Ruby, some of which are being exploited at this point. This is a major security fix for OS X and in addition to the large set of patches for Ruby, there also is a long list of fixes for vulnerabilities in OpenSSL. One of the vulnerabilities fixed in OpenSSL is CVE-2012-4929, the bug that covers the compression attack on TLS 1.0 developed by security researchers Thai Duong and Juliano Rizzo. Known as the CRIME attack, the technique enables an attacker to decrypt SSL-protected sessions under someu00a0circumstances. Apple also fixed 12 other vulnerabilities in OpenSSL by updating it to the most recent version, 0.9.8x. Apple OS X 10.8.4 also fixes a number of vulnerabilities in Ruby that caused weaknesses in applications built on Ruby on Rails. u201cMultiple vulnerabilities existed in Ruby on Rails, the most serious of which may lead to arbitrary code execution on systems running Ruby on Rails applications. These issues were addressed by updating Ruby on Rails to version 2.3.18. This issue may affect OS X Lion or OS X Mountain Lion systems that were upgraded from Mac OS X 10.6.8 or earlier. Users can update affected gems on such systems by using the /usr/bin/gem utility,u201d Apple said in its advisory. The patch also includes fixes for several vulnerabilities in QuickTime as well as in other components of the operating system. As far as Safari is concerned, the release of Safari 6.0.5 is essentially a massive fix for WebKit. The new version of the browser contains more than 25 patches for WebKit vulnerabilities. Image from Flickr photostream of Codexian.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383bdc6cefc42b00295029" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Weak RSA Keys Plague Embedded Devices, But Experts Caution Against Panic", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/weak-rsa-keys-plague-embedded-devices-experts-caution-against-panic-021512/76219/", "Date" : "February 15, 2012 , 9:20 pm", "Article" : "If all of the noise about weak RSA keys and compromised cryptosystems in the last few days has done anything, itu2019s to confirm what many in the cryptography community have known for quite a long time: When it comes to implementing cryptosystems, there are a whole lot of people doing it wrong. However, experts say the new research showing large numbers of repeated and weak crypto keys is a good reminder of not only how hard it is to get this stuff right, but also how many different ways it can go wrong. Over the course of the past couple of days, two separate teams of researchers have published new data from large-scale experiments on which they collected huge volumes of public encryption keys and then assessed their strength through various methods. One of the teams did this by comparing each individual key against all of the others to see whether there were duplicates in the data set. There were, and lots of them. The team, comprising researchers from the University of Michigan and the University of California at San Diego, found 59,000 duplicate keys, or about 1 percent of its data set. The researchers also looked for keys that were factorable due to weak entropy and found that about half of one percent of the SSL and SSH public keys they collected fit that description. The other team, working independently, also found a large number of weak RSA keys and concluded that the security offered by some systems that rely on RSA-based cryptosystems is not nearly as strong as has been believed. u201cWe checked the computational properties of millions of public keys that we collected on theu00a0web. The majority does not seem to suffer from obvious weaknesses and can be expected tou00a0provide the expected level of security. We found that on the order of 0.003% of public keys isu00a0incorrect, which does not seem to be unacceptable. We were surprised, however, by the extentu00a0to which public keys are shared among unrelated parties. For ElGamal and DSA sharing isu00a0rare, but for RSA the frequency of sharing may be a cause for concern. What surprised usu00a0most is that many thousands of 1024-bit RSA moduli, including thousands that are contained in still valid X.509 certificates, offer no security at all,u201d the second team wrote in its paper, u201cRon was wrong, Whit is rightu201d. Most of what the team from Michigan and UCSD found is attributable to weak keys found in embedded devices such as routers and VPN boxes. Those devices often donu2019t have good methods for generating the desired amount of entropy thatu2019s needed to generated strong cryptographic keys, said Nadia Heninger, one of the researchers who worked on the project. In other cases, the devices may have a stock firmware image installed at the factory that might include a set key.u00a0 u201cI would say this particular problem is an implementation issue. Itu2019s a hard problem,u201d said Heninger, a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Computer Sciences and Engineering at UCSD. u201cGiven the choice between a weak key and a repeated key, both of these are bad. The problems with repeated keys are much more widespread than factorable keys. We found more than fifty thousand that were repeated because of bad entropy and more than five hundred thousand that were repeated because they were the default on some device.u201d The RSA algorithm relies on both a public and private key. One of the ways that public keys are generated is by taking a seed value and using it to generate two large prime numbers and then using the product of those two primes as the key. If the seed value is either predictable or generated with too little entropy, then the resultant key could be factorable. And if an attacker can factor the key, then bad things happen. However, cryptographers say that the new research, while important, shouldnu2019t have people running for the hills. u201cThe fact that people are using bad random number generators has been known for a long time,u201d said Paul Kocher, a noted cryptographer and the president and chief scientist at Cryptography Research. u201cWhatu2019s neat about these research results is that they collected a huge set of keys and found a small but non-trivial set of keys that had these particular problems. Thereu2019s something frightening about the fact that you can just sit down and think about a scary security bug like this and then go out and find it in a lot of places. Itu2019s a sign of how many things are being done badly.u201d The implications of the research for individual users are fairly small. Itu2019s the device manufacturers and system designers who need to take a look at what theyu2019re doing and address the way theyu2019re implementing these cryptosystems. u201cMost products donu2019t get any kind of security review at all,u201d Kocher said. u201cDoing seeding well is one of those things thatu2019s device-specific. The toolkits canu2019t solve that problem for you and itu2019s one of the issues thatu2019s left to the integrators of the devices. Itu2019s a small but significant population of devices that has problems. The RSA algorithm depends on the implementer to generate theu00a0underlying prime numbers in the proper way. It defers this important issue to the implementer, and packages like OpenSSL then defer it to the person making the particular device.u00a0 u201cPart of the issue thatu2019s going on here is that seeding strongly is non-trivial on an appliance that needs to generate a key on its first power-up because it hasnu2019t had time to collect entropy yet.u201d Fixing the issues found by Heninger and her team and the other team led by Arjen Lenstra of the Ecole Polytechnique Federaleu00a0de Lausanne in Swizterland is not a trivial matter and itu2019s not something that can be done quickly.u00a0 u201cWe have to do more work on getting the entropy right, and thatu2019s not an easy problem,u201d Heninger said. u201cItu2019s not going to be easy. There are ways to do it, but itu2019s going to require some work.u201d Itu2019s also important to remember, Kocher said, that the problems identified by the research teams are just a small subset of the security issues that affect devices and systems that have crypto implementations. Any one of those issues could be just as serious, if not more so, than the weak or repeated keys. u201cThis is looking at one narrow security bug that can affect devices,u201d he said. u201cThere are huge numbers of sites and devices that have bugs that allow attackers to bypass the crypto. If you have a u00a0bug that results in a buffer overflow that lets you bypass the crypto somehow, thatu2019s equally catastrophic. If you start asking the question of how many devices there are out there that people think are doing crypto right that actually arenu2019t, itu2019s a huge number. u201cItu2019s almost a law of nature that people will build complicated systems that will fail badly,u201d Kocher said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383c4a6cefc42b002950aa" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Releases New Fix for CVE-2012-2110 ASN1 Bug", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-releases-new-fix-cve-2012-2110-asn1-bug-042412/76477/", "Date" : "April 24, 2012 , 7:17 pm", "Article" : "The OpenSSL developers have had to re-release the fix for a serious vulnerability in the softwareu2019s ASN.1 implementation that could allow an attacker to cause a denial of service or potentially run arbitrary code on a remote machine. The updated fix only applies to version 0.9.8v; all of the other previously affected versions are already protected with the existing patch. OpenSSL released the original advisory and fix for the CVE-2012-2110 vulnerability last week, fixing the bug in versions 0.9.8, 1.0.1a and 1.0.0i. But after releasing the fixes, Red Hat discovered that the fix for version 0.9.8 didnu2019t completely address the vulnerability, hence the new patch. u201cThe asn1_d2i_read_bio function in crypto/asn1/a_d2i_fp.c in OpenSSL before 0.9.8v, 1.0.0 before 1.0.0i, and 1.0.1 before 1.0.1a does not properly interpret integer data, which allows remote attackers to conduct buffer overflow attacks, and cause a denial of service (memory corruption) or possibly have unspecified other impact, via crafted DER data, as demonstrated by an X.509 certificate or an RSA public key,u201d according to the description of the bug in the National Vulnerability Database.u00a0 OpenSSL developers are encouraging users to upgrade to the patched versions as soon as they can. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383c986cefc42b002950f9" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Adobe Plugs Several Buffer Overflow Holes in Shockwave Player", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/adobe-plugs-several-buffer-overflow-holes-shockwave-player-102312/77144/", "Date" : "October 23, 2012 , 3:18 pm", "Article" : "Adobe announced today it has repaired a host of critical buffer overflow vulnerabilities and an array out of bounds vulnerability in Shockwave Player and urges users to update to the latest version of the software, version 11.6.8.638. The company said it is not aware of active exploits. Both the Windows and MacOS versions of Shockwave Player are vulnerable.u00a0 Details on the buffer overflow flaws will be available in CVE-2012-4172, CVE-2012-4173, CVE-2012-4174, CVE-2012-4175, CVE-2012-5273 and the array out of bounds vulnerability in CVE-2012-4176. MITRE Corp., which manages the CVE list, has yet to update those entries. The security of Adobe products has been under the microscope the last four weeks. Most recently, Adobe upgraded its Reader and Acrobat products with enhancements to its sandbox functionality and a new feature that forces any DLL loaded by either application to use Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR). Adobe introduced sandboxing in Reader version X; sandboxing is meant to keep malware from using a vulnerability in Reader to infect the operating system or other applications on a computer. The new capabilities prevent read-only requests on the machine, the theory being this protects personal data stored on the machine. In late September, Adobe disclosed that it had been attacked and hackers were using a valid Adobe certificate to sign two malicious utilities used most often in targeted attacks. Adobe revoked the certificate Oct. 4. Adobe said attackers had penetrated a build server with access to the Adobe code signing infrastructure. Adobe software signed with the certificate after July 10 for Windows machines, as well as three Adobe Air applications running on Windows and MacOS were affected. The two utilities in question are pwdump7 v7.1, which extracts password hashes from Windows and sometimes links the OpenSSL library libeay32.dll, and myGeeksmail.dll, a malicious ISAPI filter that runs on the Microsoft Web server software IIS. ISAPI can be used to modify IISu2019 functionality. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383cf36cefc42b00295161" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "New Version of OpenSSL Fixes Six Flaws", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-version-openssl-fixes-six-flaws-010512/76061/", "Date" : "January 5, 2012 , 12:59 pm", "Article" : "A new version of the OpenSSL package has been released, fixing six vulnerabilities, including a plaintext recovery attack on the DTLS implementation. There are two other cryptographic flaws fixed in OpenSSL 1.0.0f, and a few other less-serious problems. The most problematic of the vulnerabilities fixed in the new version is the one that enables the plaintext recovery attack, which was discovered by a pair of security researchers who found a way to extend the CBC padding oracle attack. The attack enables someone to exploit the problem with OpenSSLu2019s DTLS implementation to recover the plaintext version of an encrypted message. u201cNadhem Alfardan and Kenny Paterson have discovered an extension of the Vaudenay padding oracle attack on CBC mode encryption which enables an efficient plaintext recovery attack against the OpenSSL implementation of DTLS. Their attack exploits timing differences arising during decryption processing,u201d the OpenSSL adivsory says. Among the other vulnerabilities fixed in version 1.0.0f is a problem with the way that the application handles padding for SSL 3.0 records. In those records, the application would not clear the bytes that it uses as padding, meaning that some amount of potentially sensitive data from previous transactions could be sent as part of a subsequent operation. u201cOpenSSL prior to 1.0.0f and 0.9.8s failed to clear the bytes used as block cipher padding in SSL 3.0 records. This affects both clients and servers that accept SSL 3.0 handshakes: those that call SSL_CTX_new with SSLv3_{server|client}_method or SSLv23_{server|client}_method. It does not affect TLS. As a result, in each record, up to 15 bytes of uninitialized memory may be sent, encrypted, to the SSL peer. This could include sensitive contents of previously freed memory,u201d the advisory says. Versions 1.0.0f and 0.9.8s also include updates for several other vulnerabilities, namely a condition that allows an attacker to cause a denial-of-service on a server that supports server-gated cryptography handshake restarts; an assertion failure caused by malformed RFC 3779 data; and a D0S condition that can be triggered by sending invalid parameters for the GOST hash function. Users of previous versions should upgrade to OpenSSL 1.0.0f or 0.9.8s. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383d596cefc42b002951dc" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "New Workaround Released For iOS SSL Flaw", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-workaround-released-ios-ssl-flaw-081211/75537/", "Date" : "August 12, 2011 , 4:13 pm", "Article" : "A security researcher has released a new workaround for the critical vulnerability in the Apple iOS operating system related to the way that the OS handle SSL certificate validation. The workaround makes some key checks in the certificate chain that the vulnerable versions of iOS and a previous workaround fail to execute. The iPhone SSL bug came to light in July and it involves the failure of the operating system to validate the certificate chain, and specifically could allow an attacker to get a legitimate certificate for a valid domain. With that, he could then execute a man-in-the-middle attack against iPhone users who visit the site and capture their traffic. Apple patched the iOS vulnerability on Aug. 1 with the release of iOS 4.3.5 and experts have been encouraging users to update as soon as possible because of the seriousness of the vulnerability. Trustwaveu2019s SpiderLabs, which discovered the flaw, released a workaround for the problem as well, but researchers at Duo Security found that it didnu2019t entirely address the issue. So the Duo researchers developed their own workaround. u201cAt a high level, our workaround functions by first using iOSu2019snbuilt-in frameworks to validate a certificate chain for an SSLnconnection, and then u2013 if iOS determines that the chain is valid u2013ndouble-checking its result using OpenSSL. In this case, bothnimplementations are slightly incomplete: iOS, as we now know, fails toncheck basicConstraints; meanwhile, our relatively simplisticnOpenSSL verification routine does not bother to u2013 for example u2013 checknthat the leaf certificateu2019s hostname matches the URL request. Runningnthese two checks in sequence, though, we should have everything covered,u201d Duou2019s Adam Goodman wrote. Duo also released a test app for the iPhone that enables users to enter a URL and send a request to the site to connect. If the site does not a valid certificate chain, then the request will fail and the app will return an error message. The app uses OpenSSL to validate the results of the workaroundu2019s checks.  The workaround is available at Github. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383e396cefc42b002952e0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Three Questions for Billy Brumley on the OpenSSL Timing Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/three-questions-billy-brumley-openssl-timing-attack-052511/75272/", "Date" : "May 25, 2011 , 6:28 pm", "Article" : "Timing attacks have been a problem for designers of cryptosystemsu2013as well as for people implementing those systemsu2013for a long time. Theyu2019ve plagued just about every popular system, and although practical attacks have been demonstrated many times, the problem and what can be done to defend against it are well understood. As a result, researchers have for the most part focused their efforts on other side-channel attacks on cryptosystems of late. However, a new paper by a pair of researchers at a Finnish university shows that timing attacks still can be used to completely compromise some cryptosystems. The researchers, Billy Bob Brumley and Nicola Tuveri of Aalto University School of Science, focused their efforts on OpenSSLu2019s implementation of the elliptic curve digital signature algorithm (ECDSA), and they were able to develop an attack that allowed them to steal the private key of an OpenSSL server. u201cThis paper describes a timing attack vulnerability in OpenSSLu2019s ladder implementation for curves over binary fields. We use this vulnerability to steal the private key of a TLS server where the server authenticates with ECDSA signatures. Using the timing of the exchanged messages, the messages themselves, and the signatures, we mount a lattice attack that recovers the private key,u201d they say in the paper, u201cRemote Timing Attacks Are Still Practical*u201d.  I spoke with Brumley via email about the attack, the defense and whether enterprises should be concerned about its ramifications. Threatpost: How difficult would it be to implement the attack you describe against a real-world cryptosystem? Brumley: I know of at least one study showing that TLS sessions authenticated with elliptic curve cryptography outnumber those authenticated with any other method (RSA, DSA, u2026).In our attack, we used OpenSSLu2019s generic TLS server s_server as the attack target. In many respects, it represents a large class of applications built upon OpenSSL. A developer might use it as the starting point when developing an application that requires TLS. So we feel that this attack target in fact encompasses a wide range of real-world cryptosystems. Threatpost: Are there any practical mitigations for the attack, aside from the defense you describe in the paper? Brumley: Use a different certificate and/or disable elliptic curve support in OpenSSL. (Of course Iu2019d recommend first the source code patch provided in the paperu2013itu2019s a free countermeasure.) Threatpost: How worried should defenders be about this attack? Brumley: The most remote scenario we consider in the paper is the client and server on two separate machines on the same LAN. This work is substantially different from that of Brumley and Bonehu2019s timing attack on RSA; there, the attacker can compensate for variances in network noise by repeating measurements. This is because the RSA private exponent is not changing. In our attack, the one-time ECDSA keys are *always* distinct. So if there is sufficient noise on the network, the timings might not prove useful. Can it work across a LAN? Yes, we tried it. Can it work across the Internet? Feasible, but I donu2019t know; try it yourself. Can you steal the private key of the Mars Rover? Probably not. On the other hand, ask a room full of cryptographers: u2018Raise your hand if you want the security of your private key to rely only on variations in network latency.u2019 Then watch the tumbleweeds roll by. Furthermore, the definition of a remote attack is vastly different from what it was ten years ago. Now cloud computing, VPS, etc. are widespread. With these technologies, itu2019s feasible that an attacker can run its code on the same physical machine as the attack target, eliminating network noise altogether. So the line between a remote and local attack is quickly vanishing. As it stands, the attack is only relevant when using elliptic curves over binary fields. If Iu2019m running a server with a certificate containing a public key on such a curve, without a doubt Iu2019d consider this a serious threat. Users should also understand that OpenSSL is a general-purpose library. I cannot speak for every protocol implemented using OpenSSL. Itu2019s feasible that the curve parameters are negotiated in a protocol, so although on the surface it might not look like youu2019re using such a curve, perhaps an attacker can force the server to use one of these curves. A good example of a protocol built using OpenSSL is OpenSSH. Iu2019m not claiming OpenSSH is vulnerable to our attack, but you get the idea; the list goes on and on. Perhaps the scariest part is that the piece of code introducing the vulnerability has been in the library since roughly 2005. This shows that identifying timing attack vulnerabilities is a daunting task. This isnu2019t the first timing attack vulnerability discovered in OpenSSL, and I can guarantee it wonu2019t be the last. This is not me criticizing OpenSSL. Iu2019d argue that implementing completely constant-time cryptographic software, in such a versatile, portable, feature and support-packed library like OpenSSL is a futile task. In my opinion, the library is the most important piece of open source cryptographic software that exists. My hope is that identifying vulnerabilities like this and implementing attacks based on them leads to more secure software and that end-users will have more confidence in the product. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383eef6cefc42b002953af" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Issues Huge Security Update, Releases OS X 10.6.8", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/apple-issues-huge-security-update-releases-os-x-1068-062411/75365/", "Date" : "June 24, 2011 , 2:11 pm", "Article" : "Apple has released a massive set of security updates for Mac OS X and a number of other applications, fixing a total of 39 separate vulnerabilities in programs including QuickTime, MobileMe and others. The company also released OS X 10.6.8. One of the more serious bugs that Apple fixed with the huge patch release on Thursday is a vulnerability in OS Xu2019s certificate trust policy, which governs the ways in which usersu2019 systems handle digital certificates. The vulnerability can allow an attacker who already has a foothold on a network to eavesdrop and intercept usersu2019 credentials or other sensitive data. u201cAn error handling issue existed in the Certificate Trust Policy. If annExtended Validation (EV) certificate has no OCSP URL, and CRL checkingnis enabled, the CRL will not be checked and a revoked certificate may ben accepted as valid. This issue is mitigated as most EV certificatesnspecify an OCSP URL,u201d Apple said in its advisory.The certificate trust policy issue was identified and reported by two Google researchers. Apple also released patches for five individual vulnerabilities in QuickTime, which is one of the more widely deployed applications on the Web. Itu2019s the default media player for a lot of OS X users, and all of the vulnerabilities that Apple fixed Thursday can be used by an attacker to run arbitrary code on remote machines. In addition to the QuickTime and certificate bugs, Apple also fixed eight separate flaws in its MySQL implementation in OS X. The application, which ships with OS X Server, had several bugs that could be used for remote code execution. There also were five vulnerabilities in the companyu2019s OpenSSL implementation, some of which could be used for remote code execution, as well. Among the other applications and components that Apple patched are MobileMe, the App Store and many others.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383f916cefc42b00295489" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL 1.0x Flaw Open to Code Injection", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-10x-flaw-open-code-injection-081010/74313/", "Date" : "August 10, 2010 , 1:58 pm", "Article" : "Security expert Georgi Guninski has pointed out a security issue in the 1.0 branch of OpenSSL that potentially allows SSL servers to compromise clients. Read the full article. [The H Security] " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383fc66cefc42b002954cd" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Updates with Security Fixes", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-updates-security-fixes-060310/74059/", "Date" : "June 3, 2010 , 5:32 pm", "Article" : "The OpenSSL developers have releasednversions 0.9.8o and 1.0.0a, fixing two security problems. Read the full article. [The H Security] " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3842656cefc42b002957c8" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Public Key Flaw Labelled Severe", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-public-key-flaw-labelled-severe-030410/73633/", "Date" : "March 4, 2010 , 10:26 pm", "Article" : "Computer scientists say theyu2019ve discovered a u201csevere vulnerabilityu201d in the worldu2019s most widely used software encryption package that allows them to retrieve a machineu2019s secret cryptographic key. The bug in the OpenSSL cryptographic library is significant because the open-source package is used to protect sensitive data in countless applications and operating systems throughout the world. Read the full article. [The Register] " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3842866cefc42b002957f4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "OpenSSL Flaw Can Crash Remote Machines", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/openssl-flaw-can-crash-remote-machines-032910/73752/", "Date" : "March 29, 2010 , 2:36 pm", "Article" : "There is a vulnerability in some versions of the OpenSSL software that can enable an attacker to crash remote clients or servers using a specially constructed record. The flaw gives an attacker the ability to use a single TLS record to take out remote machines that are running a vulnerable version of the OpenSSL software. The OpenSSL team has released a patch for the vulnerability, which affects versions 0.9.8f-0.9.8m. In TLS connections, certain incorrectly formatted records can cause an OpenSSLclient or server to crash due to a read attempt at NULL. Affected versions depend on the C compiler used with OpenSSL: u2013 If u2018shortu2019 is a 16-bit integer, this issue applies only to OpenSSL 0.9.8m.u2013 Otherwise, this issue applies to OpenSSL 0.9.8f through 0.9.8m. Users of the vulnerable versions should upgrade immediately.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3843666cefc42b00295905" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "How the Debian OpenSSL bug almost spawned a disaster", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/how-debian-openssl-bug-almost-spawned-disaster-051809/72669/", "Date" : "May 18, 2009 , 7:27 pm", "Article" : "When news broke last year about the serious flaw in the Debian OpenSSL pseudorandom number generator, security experts knew it was a serious problem and warned users to regenerate any keys that had been created using the vulnerable versions of the OpenSSL package. It was a big problem, but it turns out that it could have been far worse.  Nate Lawson, an expert on cryptography, today described in detail why the situation could have turned out much differently: Not only was every key that had been generated by the vulnerable versions compromised, so was every key used on systems running those vulnerable versions of Debian. In the rush to find and replace SSL certs and SSH keys generated on Debian or Ubuntu systems, very few people grasped the significance of this other warning. This is important because an attacker can retroactively seek out DSA signatures generated during the vulnerable period and use them to recover your private keyu2026 The impact of this attack is that every signature generated on a vulnerable system reveals the signeru2019s private key. An attacker can find old signatures by crawling your website, examining signed email, analyzing saved packet captures of an SSL exchange, etc. The associated DSA key has to be revoked, regenerated and redistributed. Luckily for Debian, their packages are signed using GnuPG, which did not use the OpenSSL PRNG. But for anyone using other software based on OpenSSL, you need to revoke all DSA keys used to sign data on vulnerable Debian or Ubuntu systems. Even if the key was generated securely, a single insecure signature reveals the entire private key. Itu2019s that bad. Debian pointed out this fact in its original advisory on the OpenSSL PRNG problem, but, as Lawson said, it was not widely reported. And, given that attackers could conceivably still go back and find old signatures, itu2019s worth ensuring that any key used or generated during that period has been discarded and regenerated. Problems with cryptographic algorithms or packages like OpenSSL sometimes are dismissed as being too difficult to exploit. But that was clearly not the case with the Debian vulnerability. Within days of the announcement of the vulnerability, HD Moore of the Metasploit Project had posted a list of compromised keys that he was able to brute force. And, not only did this vulnerability affect OpenSSL keys, it also affected digital certificates. It was a widespread problem stemming from a small error in one part of a Linux distribution. For an excellent analysis of the problem, see Michael Cobbu2019s column. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3844ad6cefc42b00295a3a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Multiple vulnerabilities found, fixed in OpenSSL", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/multiple-vulnerabilities-found-fixed-openssl-032609/72539/", "Date" : "March 26, 2009 , 11:43 pm", "Article" : "The OpenSSL Project has released new versions of its popular implementation of the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) and Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocols to fix multiple security vulnerabilities. According to an advisory [openssl.org], the update fixes three security flaws that carry u201cmoderate severityu201d ratings.u00a0 The raw details:  Read the full advisory [openssl.org] I strongly recommend that OpenSSL users follow the advice from US-CERT: Because OpenSSL is widely redistributed, users should check for updates from their operating system vendors and vendors of other products using OpenSSL. Users of OpenSSL from the original source distribution should upgrade to OpenSSL 0.9.8k [openssl.org]. " }n"
%%%Stagefright2015——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597306cefc42d78dc5ad0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Android Vendors Regularly Omit Patches in Security Updates", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/android-vendors-regularly-omit-patches-security-updates", "Date" : "April 16, 2018", "Article" : "There is a good chance that your Android phone doesnu2019t have all of the security patches that it should, as vendors regularly omit some vulnerability fixes, security researchers have discovered. After looking at the firmware of devices from tens of device makers, Germany-based Security Research Labs researchers discovered that not all relevant patches are included in the monthly updates that Android phones receive.  After the Stagefright vulnerabilities were found to impact nearly one billion devices three years ago, Google started releasing monthly security updates for the Android platform, to improve its overall security stance. Many vendors followed suit, announcing plans to keep up with Google and regularly deliver patches to their users. However, only 17% of Android devices were found to run the most recent patch level in June 2016, and fixes were arriving slow in October that year. While many vendors have improved their patching frequency and phones started receiving monthly security updates, not all issues are addressed accordingly, the security researchers have discovered. u201cInstalling patches every month is an important first step, but is still insufficient unless all relevant patches are included in those updates. Our large study of Android phones finds that most Android vendors regularly forget to include some patches, leaving parts of the ecosystem exposed to the underlying risks,u201d Security Research Labs says. The security researchers analyzed the firmware of devices from over twenty vendors, looking for Critical and High severity patches they might be missing. They analyzed some phones multiple times, with different firmware releases and only considered phones patched from October 2017 or later. The analysis revealed that most vendors forgot to deliver at least one patch to their users, while a handful of them didnu2019t deliver 4 or more patches. Given that not all patches were included in the tests, the actual number of missing patches could be much higher, the researchers say.  Missing patches donu2019t necessary imply that the phones are vulnerable, considering the security improvements in modern operating systems, such as ASLR and sandboxing, which typically prevent hacking, the security researchers argue.  This means that a few missing patches donu2019t usually render a device prone to remote compromise. A hacker would need to chain together multiple bugs for a successful attack, the researchers note, adding that cybercriminals do understand these challenges.  u201cInstead criminals focus on social engineering users into installing malicious apps, often from insecure sources, and then granting excessive permissions to these apps. In fact, hardly any criminal hacking activity has been observed around Android over the past year,u201d Security Research Labs says.  Those willing to invest into hacking Android devices are state-sponsored and other persistent threats. Operating stealthily and well-funded, these hackers normally leverage zero-day vulnerabilities in attacks, though they may also use known bugs to build exploit chains.  With monthly security updates arriving on many Android devices, it is important that these updates include all relevant patches. Users should start verifying their vendoru2019s claims about the security of their devices, and can measure their patch levels using free apps.  u201cAs Android is ever increasing in popularity, the hacking incentives will only keep growing, as does the ecosystemu2019s responsibility for keeping its users secure. No single defense layer can withstand large hacking incentives for very long, prompting u201cdefense in depthu201d approaches with multiple security layers. Patching is critically important to uphold the effectiveness of the different security layers already found in Android,u201d Security Research Labs concludes.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597de6cefc42d78dc5c9c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Zimperium Throws $1.5 Million at Mobile N-day Exploits", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/zimperium-throws-15-million-mobile-n-day-exploits", "Date" : "February 01, 2017", "Article" : "Zimperium Launches Exploit Acquisition Program for Android and iOS N-Days, But No Interest in 0-Days Bug bounty programs exist to encourage researchers to find and report zero-day vulnerabilities. The theory is that the vulnerability is patched and the threat goes away. In reality, however, the zero-day vulnerability simply becomes an N-day exploit; where 'n' is the number of days between the patch and its deployment. During this period, an N-day exploit is as dangerous as a 0-day exploit. This is a particular problem in the mobile world, where millions of users remain at risk for extended periods due to poor deployment processes that never reach the majority of mobile devices. Now Zimperium, which raised $12 million in Series B funding in February 2015, is attempting to upset the status quo with the announcement of a zLabs $1.5 million N-day exploit acquisition program.  "Unfortunately, the security patching process for mobile devices' operating systems is extremely slow, which leaves companies and individuals highly vulnerable to dozens of security threats," explains Zuk Avraham, CTO and founder at Zimperium. "Through zLab's new Exploit Acquisition Program, our customers, partners, and the rest of the cybersecurity community will be notified of these vulnerabilities so that they will be able to provide the highest level of protection possible." There are several actual and hoped-for effects. The first is that once an N-day exploit is known, it will apply pressure to the mobile ecosystem to rethink and improve the security process update. The second is that it will encourage and reward those researchers that develop exploits that immediately become worthless, in bug bounty terms, as soon as the vulnerability is known to the vendor.u00a0 The third is that it will simply make for a more secure mobile market. With the researcher's approval, the exploit will be released to members of the Zimperium Handset Alliance (ZHA). This includes Samsung, Softbank, Telstra, Blackberry and more than 30 members of well-known handset vendors and mobile carriers around the world. Zimperium will publicly release the exploit crediting the researcher after between one and three months. The fourth is Zimperium's own reward. It will use the exploits and the techniques used in the exploit to enhance its own machine learning z9 threat detection engine. This will give customers protection against the exploit even before the patch is released and deployed. The reporting process is relatively simple for researchers who produce relevant N-day exploits. They should simply email ninja_exploits at nothuman.ninja, describe the exploit, quote the CVE number, explain how the exploit chain works, and state whether they wish to release the code publicly, and receive credit for it. The exploit is then evaluated by a zLabs committee, and a researcher compensation offer raised. "As a rule," Avraham told SecurityWeek, "critical flaws -- such as a full, remote exploit chain -- will receive more compensation than local exploits. Once we are able to trigger a vulnerability on an older device/OS, we will provide a quote." "It's simple," he wrote in a blog post today. "We'll buy remote or local exploits targeting any version other than the latest version of iOS and Android." It could be argued that by encouraging the development of N-day exploits and incorporating their solution into the z9 detection engine, Zimperium is increasing the threat level for any user not using Zimperium. Avraham refutes this suggestion. "While individual device owners won't see the benefits of this program immediately," he told SecurityWeek, "we're doing everything we can to enhance the way that users receive security updates. "Sophisticated attackers," he continued, "didn't wait for this program to research the monthly security bulletins. These vulnerabilities already exist and are explored by sophisticated actors. Making these vulnerabilities available to the Zimperium Handset Alliance (ZHA) and then the security community, decreases the chances that they will be used in targeted attacks, increases the chances of the carriers to stop these attacks, increases the chances of the vendors allocating resources to provide an update, and helps the entire ecosystem." In reality, the scheme formalizes and increases what Zimperium has already done. In September 2015 it published an exploit for a critical Android Stagefright vulnerability. The vulnerability had already been patched by Google, but the existence of a published exploit applied pressure on Android suppliers to deliver the patch. It is certainly true that anything done to decrease the duration of an N-day exploit must be beneficial. But what happens if the $1.5 million runs out? "That will be a great problem to have," said Avraham. "Depending on the success of the program we may allocate more." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597f26cefc42d78dc5ccd" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "50 Million Potentially Impacted by AirDroid Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/50-million-potentially-impacted-airdroid-vulnerabilities", "Date" : "December 02, 2016", "Article" : "Vulnerabilities in the Android remote management tool AirDroid potentially impact over 50 million devices, security researchers at Zimperium zLabs warn. The application has seen between 10 and 50 million downloads through the official Google Play software portal, but the security firm says that its device base is larger than that. According to Zimperium (the security firm that discovered the Stagefright flaw in Android), vulnerabilities in AirDroid allow an attacker to exploit built-in features and use them against the applicationu2019s users. The issue, the security researchers say, is that AirDroid uses insecure communication channels, which means that the applicationu2019s millions of users are exposed to Man-in-the-Middle (MitM) attacks and other types of nefarious acts. Information leakage is also possible, along with remote hijacking of update APKs, which could result in remote code execution. While analyzing AirDroid, the security researchers discovered that the communication channels employed to send authentication data to the statistics server are insecure. While the requests are encrypted with the Data Encryption Standard (DES) symmetric-key block cipher in Electronic Codebook (ECB) mode, the encryption key is hardcoded inside the application, meaning that the attacker knows it. Armed with these details, an actor on the same network with the target device could execute MitM attacks to grab authentication credentials from the very first HTTP request the application performs, and can then impersonate the user for further requests, Zimperiumu2019s Simone Margaritelli explains. u201cThis HTTP request can be decrypted at runtime using the 890jklms key hardcoded inside the application and the authentication fields parsed from the resulting JSON. Having this information, the attacker can now impersonate the victimu2019s device and perform various HTTP or HTTPS requests on its behalf to the AirDroid API endpoints,u201d the researcher notes. An attacker could craft a payload encrypted in DES with the same exact key to trick the server into spewing user information, which will result in the email and password hash being exposed. Whatu2019s more, an attacker performing MitM could also redirect HTTP traffic to a malicious transparent proxy, thus being able to modify the response for the /phone/vncupgrade request, which the application normally uses to check for addons updates. Thus, by injecting a fake update, the actor could execute malicious code remotely on the compromised device, because AirDroid notifies the user about an update, downloads the RCE.apk package, and might even prompt the user to install it. Zimperium notes that most of the AirDroidu2019s functionalities are carried out using secure HTTPS API endpoints, but insecure channels are used for specific tasks, such as the sending of statistics to a remote server. For security, the app relies on DES encrypted JSON payloads for this type of communication, but the use of a hardcoded key (determined to be 890jklms) nullifies the security measure. To resolve these issues, researchers say, the application should use only secure communication channels (HTTPS), should verify the remote public key (key pinning) to avoid SSL MitM, should use safe key exchange mechanisms, and should leverage and verify digital signatures for update files. The company also explains that these issues were discovered in May this year, when the developer was notified. However, although two updates were released this week in the form of AirDroid 4.0.0 and AirDroid 4.0.1, the application continues to be vulnerable, putting tens of millions of users at risk. To stay protected, Zimperium says, users are advised to uninstall or disable AirDroid until a fix is available. They should also install and maintain an anti-malware solution on their Android devices. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598256cefc42d78dc5d49" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches 23 Critical Vulnerabilities in Android", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-patches-23-critical-vulnerabilities-android", "Date" : "November 08, 2016", "Article" : "Google on Monday released its November 2016 Android security patches to resolve 83 vulnerabilities in the mobile operating system, 23 of which have been rated Critical. Of the 83 bugs, 37 were rated High risk, 22 were assessed as Medium risk, and one was rated Low. Google has split the November 2016 Android Security Bulletin into three parts, in line with the practice it has adopted several months ago (although previous bulletins were usually split into two parts). The first part, security patch level of 2016-11-01, addresses multiple vulnerabilities in the Android platform, some of which affect even version 4.4.4 of the operating system, while others are only impacting Android 7.0 devices. Overall, it patches 28 security flaws, two of which were rated Critical, 16 High risk, and 10 Moderate. The first Critical bug was patched in mediaserver, the Android component that prompted Google last year to start issuing monthly security updates for the operating system after researchers discovered the critical Stagefright flaw impacting nearly a billion devices. By exploiting the newly patched flaw, an attacker using a specially crafted file could cause memory corruption during media file and data processing. The second Critical issue was an Elevation of privilege addressed in the libzipfile component, which could allow a local malicious application to execute arbitrary code within the context of a privileged process. While the first vulnerability impacts only Android 7.0 devices, the second was found to affect Android 4.4.4, 5.0.2, and 5.1.1 devices, Googleu2019s advisory reveals. Other addressed flaws included: Remote code execution in Skia, libjpeg, and Android runtime; Elevation of privilege in mediaserver, System Server, System UI, Framework APIs, AOSP Launcher, Account Manager, and Bluetooth; Information disclosure in Conscrypt and BoringSSL, download manager, and mediaserver; and Denial of service in Bluetooth, OpenJDK, mediaserver, Proxy Auto Config, and Input Manager Service. The second part of the November Security Bulletin, which installs security patch level of 2016-11-05, addresses a total of 20 Critical flaws, 21 High risk issues, 12 Moderate, and one Low risk vulnerability in multiple components and OEM drivers. Some of them affect only Nexus and Pixel devices, while others impact Android 4.4.4 through 6.0.1 products. Among the Critical vulnerabilities, we can count a Remote code execution in Qualcomm crypto driver, Elevation of privilege flaws in kernel file system, kernel SCSI driver, kernel media driver, kernel USB driver, kernel ION subsystem, Qualcomm bootloader, NVIDIA GPU driver, kernel networking subsystem, kernel sound subsystem, kernel ION subsystem, and Qualcomm components. The High risk flaws include Remote code execution in Expat, Webview, and Freetype; Elevation of privilege in kernel performance subsystem, kernel system-call auditing subsystem, Qualcomm crypto engine driver, Qualcomm camera driver, Qualcomm bus driver, and Synaptics touchscreen driver; Information disclosure in kernel components and NVIDIA GPU driver; and Denial of service in mediaserver. The Moderate risk flaws were Information disclosure in kernel components and Qualcomm components. The third part of this monthu2019s security update brings devices to security patch level of 2016-11-06 and resolves a Critical Elevation of privilege vulnerability (CVE-2016-5195) in kernel memory subsystem. By exploiting this flaw, a local malicious application could execute arbitrary code within the context of the kernel. The vulnerability could result in local permanent device compromise, Google explains. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598646cefc42d78dc5dd4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches 22 Critical Android Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-patches-22-critical-android-vulnerabilities", "Date" : "January 04, 2017", "Article" : "Released on Tuesday, Googleu2019s first Android Security Bulletin for 2017 patches a total of 95 vulnerabilities in the operating system, 22 of which were rated Critical severity. Over half (50) of the bugs addressed this month were Elevation of privilege flaws. As the process has been over the past several months, January's security bulletin is split in two, making it easier for device manufacturers to implement patches: the 2017-01-01 security patch level resolves 23 issues that affect various Android components, while the 2017-01-05 security patch level addresses 72 bugs affecting drivers and other ODM software and which impact Nexus and Pixel devices too. Of the 22 vulnerabilities assessed with a Critical severity rating, a Remote code execution flaw (CVE-2017-0381) was resolved in Mediaserver, one of the most impacted Android components. Ever since Google kicked off the monthly patch program in the summer of 2015, various Critical issues were found in Mediaserver, starting with Stagefright, which was followed by a second Stagefright vulnerability only several months later. The remaining 21 Critical flaws patched this month include Elevation of privilege issues affecting the kernel memory subsystem, Qualcomm bootloader, kernel file system, NVIDIA GPU driver, MediaTek driver, Qualcomm GPU driver, and Qualcomm video driver. Three other Critical vulnerabilities were patched in various Qualcomm components, Googleu2019s advisory reveals. u00a0 While only one of the 23 vulnerabilities addressed in the 2017-01-01 security patch level was rated Critical, 14 of them were rated High severity. These included Remote code execution bugs in c-ares and Framesequence; Elevation of privilege vulnerabilities in Framework APIs, Audioserver, libnl, and Mediaserver; an Information disclosure vulnerability in External Storage Provider; and Denial of service flaws in core networking, Mediaserver, and Telephony. Eight of the bugs resolved by this security patch level were Medium risk: an Elevation of privilege vulnerability in Contacts, two Information disclosure vulnerabilities in Mediaserver, and five Information disclosure issues in Audioserver. Of the 72 vulnerabilities addressed in the 2017-01-05 security patch level, 18 were the aforementioned Critical Elevation of privilege flaws, 3 were Critical bugs in Qualcomm components, 33 were High risk flaws in various drivers and components, and 18 were considered Medium severity. While six of the High risk flaws were addressed in Qualcomm components, 22 were Elevation of privilege issues affecting Qualcomm camera, MediaTek components, Qualcomm Wi-Fi driver, NVIDIA GPU driver, Qualcomm sound driver, Synaptics touchscreen driver, kernel security subsystem, kernel performance subsystem, kernel sound subsystem, Qualcomm Wi-Fi driver, Qualcomm radio driver, kernel profiling subsystem and Broadcom Wi-Fi driver. The remaining five High risk flaws include Information disclosure vulnerabilities in NVIDIA video driver and bootloader, as well as Denial of service vulnerabilities in Qualcomm FUSE file system and bootloader. The Medium risk bugs addressed in the 2017-01-05 security patch level include Elevation of privilege vulnerabilities in Broadcom Wi-Fi driver, bootloader, and Binder; Information disclosure vulnerabilities in NVIDIA camera driver, MediaTek driver, STMicroelectronics driver, Qualcomm audio post processor, and HTC input driver, a Denial of service vulnerability in kernel file system, and another flaw in Qualcomm components. According to Google, a security patch level of 2017-01-05 or later must address all of the 2017-01-01 issues as well. Supported Google devices are set to receive a single over the air update with the January 5, 2017 security patch level. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598ba6cefc42d78dc5e98" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Critical Vulnerabilities Patched in Android Mediaserver, Qualcomm Drivers", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/critical-vulnerabilities-patched-android-mediaserver-qualcomm-drivers", "Date" : "June 07, 2016", "Article" : "Google on Monday released the June 2016 set of security updates for the Android operating system, meant to patch a total of 40 vulnerabilities in the platform: 8 Critical, 28 High, and 4 Medium severity. For roughly a year, after the Stagefright vulnerability was disclosed in July 2015, Google has been fixing issues in the mediaserver component, and this monthu2019s security bulletin is no different. A total of 15 security vulnerabilities were resolved in mediaserver this month, along with 16 flaws in various Qualcomm drivers, and 9 bugs in other components and drivers. The June 2016 Android security updates resolve a Remote Code Execution (RCE) flaw in mediaserver (CVE-2016-2463) rated Critical, 13 High severity flaws in the component u2013 12 Elevation of Privilege (EoP) issues (CVE-2016-2476, CVE-2016-2477, CVE-2016-2478, CVE-2016-2479, CVE-2016-2480, CVE-2016-2481, CVE-2016-2482, CVE-2016-2483, CVE-2016-2484, CVE-2016-2485, CVE-2016-2486, CVE-2016-2487) and a Remote Denial of Service (DoS) bug (CVE-2016-2495) u2013, and an Information Disclosure vulnerability (CVE-2016-2499) rated Medium risk.  Last month, Google patched 40 vulnerabilities in Android, 12 of which were rated Critical. One of these was an Elevation of Privilege (EoP) vulnerability in the Qualcomm Secure Execution Environment (QSEE), which was found to affect about 60 percent of all Android devices around the world, and itu2019s no surprise that this monthu2019s patches focus on Qualcomm drivers.  The June 2016 Android security update closes 6 Critical severity EoP flaws affecting Qualcomm Video (CVE-2016-2465), Sound (CVE-2016-2466, CVE-2016-2467), GPU (CVE-2016-2468, CVE-2016-2062), and Wi-Fi (CVE-2016-2474) drivers, Googleu2019s security bulletin reveals.  Other 9 EoP flaws in Qualcomm drivers u2013 Sound (CVE-2016-2066, CVE-2016-2469), Camera (CVE-2016-2061, CVE-2016-2488), Video (CVE-2016-2489), and Wi-Fi (CVE-2016-2470, CVE-2016-2471, CVE-2016-2472, CVE-2016-2473) u2013 were also addressed, all rated High severity, along with a Medium risk Information Disclosure flaw in Qualcomm Wi-Fi Driver (CVE-2016-2498). Google also fixed a Critical RCE flaw in libwebm (CVE-2016-2464), two High risk EoPs in Broadcom Wi-Fi Driver (CVE-2016-2475, CVE-2016-2493), two other in NVIDIA Camera Driver (CVE-2016-2490, CVE-2016-2491), one in MediaTek Power Management Driver (CVE-2016-2492), and another in SD Card Emulation Layer (CVE-2016-2494). The remaining newly patched flaws were an EoP in Framework UI (CVE-2016-2496) and an Information Disclosure in Activity Manager (CVE-2016-2500), both rated Medium risk. Android 4.4.4, 5.0.2, 5.1.1, 6.0, and 6.0.1 are affected by most of these vulnerabilities, though Google also explains that some of these issues impact only Nexus devices (namely those affecting Qualcomm, Broadcom, and NVIDIA drivers), while others affect only the 6.0 and 6.1 versions of Android (the Framework UI vulnerability). Devices running under Android with Security Patch Levels of June 01, 2016 or later are safe from these vulnerabilities. Google also explains that its partners were notified on these issues on May 02, 2016 or earlier, and that source code patches will be released to the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) repository shortly. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598c06cefc42d78dc5ea4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Firefox 45 Patches 22 Critical Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/firefox-45-patches-22-critical-vulnerabilities", "Date" : "March 10, 2016", "Article" : "Mozilla this week released the stable version of Firefox 45 to resolve 40 vulnerabilities in the browser, 22 of which are rated Critical. The update patches flaws in multiple browser components, the most affected being the Graphite 2 library, which was impacted by 14 Critical bugs. Other Critical vulnerabilities were found in NSS, XML transformations, SetBody, HTML5 string parser, Service Worker Manager, and WebRTC data channels. In February, Graphite 2 was updated to version 1.3.5 to resolve four issues that could result in arbitrary code execution and denial-of-service (DoS) attacks. The update arrived in Firefox 44.0.2, which was released roughly two weeks after Firefox 44 landed in the stable channel with push notifications and deprecated support for RC4. One of the issues resolved in the library with the new update was an out-of-bounds write when loading a crafted Graphite font file (CVE-2016-1969). The issue was resolved in Graphite 2 version 1.3.6, which also patches 11 heap buffer overflow bugs, along with two uninitialized memory flaws (CVE-2016-2790 and CVE-2016-2795), and an out of bounds bit set issue (CVE-2016-1977), Mozilla revealed. Another Critical issue resolved in Firefox 45 (and Firefox ESR 38.7) was a heap-based buffer overflow in the way the Network Security Services (NSS) libraries parsed certain ASN.1 structures, which could result in arbitrary code execution (CVE-2016-1950). A use-after-free during XML transformation operations issue was also patched in this release (CVE-2016-1964). Firefox 45 also patches a Critical use-after-free issue when using multiple WebRTC data channel connections (CVE-2016-1962), a use-after-free issue in the SetBody function of HTMLDocument (CVE-2016-1961), a use-after-free issue in the HTML5 string parser (CVE-2016-1960), a mechanism where the Clients API in Service Workers can be used to trigger an out-of-bounds read in ServiceWorkerManager (CVE-2016-1959), and memory safety bugs in the browser engine (CVE-2016-1952 and CVE-2016-1953). The browser update also resolves 7 vulnerabilities rated High risk, including a use-after-free vulnerability while processing DER encoded keys in the NSS libraries (CVE-2016-1979), an out-of-bounds read following a failed allocation in the HTML parser (CVE-2016-1974), a use-after-free in GetStaticInstance in WebRTC (CVE-2016-1973), a memory corruption with malicious NPAPI plugin (CVE-2016-1966), and a buffer overflow in Brotli decompression (CVE-2016-1968). Mozilla also resolved a variant of a same origin flaw that was patched in Firefox 43, which made it possible to read cross-origin URLs following a redirect if performance.getEntries() was used along with an iframe to host a page. The new bug allowed for the same attack to be performed if a browser session was restored, because content was restored from the browser cache (CVE-2016-1967). It was also discovered that a malicious page can overwrite files on the user's machine using Content Security Policy (CSP) violation reports, which could result in privilege escalation (CVE-2016-1954). The issue is resolved in Firefox 45 and Firefox ESR 38.7.  Firefox 45 also addresses 10 Moderate risk flaws in the browser, including five WebRTC (an integer underflow, a missing status check, race condition, and a use of deleted pointers to create new object) and LibVPX vulnerabilities (race condition) that affect only Windows users. Except for a Linux video memory denial of service (DOS) with Intel drivers, the other issues impact all platforms, Mozilla said. The new browser version also patches a memory leak in the libstagefright library when array destruction occurs during MPEG4 video file processing (CVE-2016-1957). The flaw is rated Low risk, and doesnu2019t appear to be related to the Critical vulnerabilities discovered in Androidu2019s libstagefright library last year.  Firefox 45 is available for download for Windows, Mac, Linux, and Android users and brings along various improvements and new features as well, in addition to the aforementioned security patches. On Tuesday, Google pushed a new set of security patches to its Chrome browser, although it released Chrome 49 in the stable channel only last week. The latest Chrome release (version 49.0.2623.87) resolved three High risk vulnerabilities, while last weeku2019s iteration (version 49.0.2623.75) resolved 26 security holes, 8 of which were High risk. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598c96cefc42d78dc5eb2" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Fixes Critical Flaws in Latest Android Update", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-fixes-critical-flaws-latest-android-update", "Date" : "December 08, 2015", "Article" : "Google on Monday released its December 2015 Nexus Security Bulletin to patch 19 known vulnerabilities in the Android operating system, five of which are rated Critical.  The most severe of the vulnerabilities resolved in this round of patches is a Critical security vulnerability that could enable remote code execution (RCE) on an affected device. The issue could be exploited when processing media files and provides attackers with multiple entry points, including email, web browsing, and MMS, Google explains in the Security Bulletin. Four of the Critical vulnerabilities resolved in the update could result in RCE and reside in Mediaserver (CVE-2015-6616), Skia (CVE-2015-6617), and Display Driver (CVE-2015-6633 and CVE-2015-6634). The fifth is an Elevation of Privilege (EOP) vulnerability in Kernel (CVE-2015-6619). All of them affect Android 6.0 and older versions of the operating system, Google warns.  Earlier this year, Google patched another series of Critical vulnerabilities in the Mediaserver service, including the Stagefright issue that was revealed back in July by security firm Zimperium, and the Stagefright 2.0 flaw disclosed by the same security firm in late September. The first of them determined Google to commit to monthly security updatesu00a0for Android, to patch similar issues in due time.  The newly patched RCE vulnerabilities in Android could be triggered during the playback of media files, as all of them could cause memory corruption. The elevation of privilege vulnerability in the system kernel could allow local malicious application to execute arbitrary code within the device root context, resulting in complete device compromise (devices could be repaired only by re-flashing the OS). The December 2015 set of patches also resolves 12 vulnerabilities featuring High severity, including an RCE flaw in Bluetooth (CVE-2015-6618), EOP issues in libstagefright (CVE-2015-6620), SystemUI (CVE-2015-6621), Native Frameworks Library (CVE-2015-6622), Wi-Fi (CVE-2015-6623), and System Server (CVE-2015-6624), and information disclosure vulnerabilities in libstagefright (CVE-2015-6626, CVE-2015-6631, and CVE-2015-6632), Audio (CVE-2015-6627), Media Framework (CVE-2015-6628), and Wi-Fi (CVE-2015-6629).  The security update also resolves two Moderate issues in Android, namely an elevation of privilege vulnerability in System Server (CVE-2015-6625), and an information disclosure vulnerability in SystemUI (CVE-2015-6630). Google notes that the severity assessment is based on the effect that exploiting the vulnerability would have on an affected device, provided that platform and service mitigations are disabled. All of these issues are addressed in software build LMY48Z or later and Android Marshmallow with Security Patch Level of December 1, 2015 or later, the security bulletin reveals. Googleu2019s manufacturing partners received information on these issues on November 2, 2015, when they were also provide with updates for them. The source code patches for these issues will be released to the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) repository soon. Owners of Nexus devices should receive the new software update shortly. Manufacturers including Samsung, LG, and BlackBerryu00a0committed over the summer to push these updates to their users on a monthly basis, and BlackBerry released the first security patch for its Android-based PRIV devices last week. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598d16cefc42d78dc5ebf" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches Critical Vulnerabilities in Android", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-patches-critical-vulnerabilities-android", "Date" : "March 08, 2016", "Article" : "Google has patched another series of Critical vulnerabilities in Android, including a remote code execution (RCE) flaw in mediaserver and several elevation of privilege (EoP) issues in various drivers and components.  The Internet giant included 16 security patches for 19 vulnerabilities in this monthu2019s Nexus Security Bulletin, which is the eighth monthly update coming from the company since the Stagefright flaw was discovered in July last year to affect nearly 1 billion devices. The Security Bulletin reveals that seven of these vulnerabilities were rated Critical, ten were rated High, and two Moderate. While many of these flaws were EoP issues, Google also resolved information disclosure bugs in the mobile OS, along with a mitigation bypass vulnerability, and a remote denial of service flaw. Fortunately, Google said it has not had any reports of active customer exploitation of the newly patched vulnerabilities. The new set of security updates for Android once again resolves vulnerabilities in mediaserver, the platform component that was affected by Stagefright and Stagefright 2.0 last year. This month, Google patched two RCE issues in it (CVE-2016-0815 and CVE-2016-0816), which could be exploited during the processing of a specially crafted media file, and which affect Android 4.4.4, 5.0.2, 5.1.1, 6.0, and 6.0.1. Google also patched 4 EoP flaws affecting Conscrypt (CVE-2016-0818), the Qualcomm Performance Component (CVE-2016-0819), MediaTek Wi-Fi Driver (CVE-2016-0820), and Keyring Component (CVE-2016-0728). The issue with the MediaTek Wi-Fi Kernel Driver affects Android 6.0.1, while the other three were found in Android 4.4.4, 5.0.2, 5.1.1, 6.0, and 6.0.1. The vulnerability in Conscrypt could allow a specific type of invalid certificate, issued by an intermediate Certificate Authority (CA), to be incorrectly trusted, which may enable a man in the middle attack. The other three could enable a local malicious application to execute arbitrary code within the kernel, with CVE-2016-0819 and CVE-2016-0728 possibly resulting in permanent device compromise.  Of the 10 High risk flaws resolved in the March Nexus Security Bulletin, one is a mitigation bypass vulnerability in the kernel (CVE-2016-0821), one a remote denial of service bug in Bluetooth (CVE-2016-0830), one EoP issue in MediaTek connectivity driver (CVE-2016-0822), and two EoP flaws in mediaserver (CVE-2016-0826 and CVE-2016-0827). Google also patched information disclosure vulnerabilities in kernel (CVE-2016-0823), libstagefright (CVE-2016-0824), Widevine (CVE-2016-0825), and mediaserver (CVE-2016-0828 and CVE-2016-0829). Most of these flaws affect Android 6.0 and 6.0.1 releases, but the ones in mediaserver were found in all Android versions starting with 4.4.4.  All of these issues have been addressed in Android Build LMY49H or later and Android 6.0 with Security Patch Level of March 1, 2016 or later, Google notes. The company notified its partners on these issues on February 1, 2016 or earlier and plans on publishing the source code patches for these issues to the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) repository in the next couple of days.  In August 2015, Google committed to regular, monthly updates for Nexus devices, and partner manufacturers such as Samsung and BlackBerry also announced plans to follow Googleu2019s footsteps.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598dd6cefc42d78dc5ed2" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches 31 Critical Flaws in Android", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-patches-31-critical-flaws-android", "Date" : "April 06, 2017", "Article" : "Google this week released security updates for Android to resolve numerous Critical remote code execution (RCE) and elevation of privilege (EoP) vulnerabilities in the platform. Over 100 vulnerabilities were resolved in Android this month, split into two separate sets of patches. A total of 23 bugs were addressed with 2017-04-01 security patch level, including 6 Critical vulnerabilities, 9 rated High risk and 8 Moderate. There were 6 Critical RCE issues affecting Mediaserver; High risk flaws such as EoPs in CameraBase, Audioserver, and SurfaceFlingeru0219 Information disclosure in Mediaserver; and denial of service (DoS) vulnerabilities in libskia and Mediaserver. The Moderate severity issues included EoP bugs in libnl and Telephony, along with Information disclosure vulnerabilities in Mediaserver, libskia, and Factory Reset. Overall, Google patched 15 flaws in Mediaserver this month, which proves once again that this is one of the most vulnerable components in Android, after the Stagefright bug was found in it almost two years ago. The 2017-04-05 security patch level resolves a total of 79 vulnerabilities, 25 of which were rated Critical severity, 39 have a High rating, and 15 are considered Moderate risk, Googleu2019s advisory reveals. One of the most severe of these vulnerabilities was a RCE issue in Broadcom Wi-Fi firmware. Tracked as CVE-2017-0561 and found by Google Project Zero researcher Gal Beniamini, the issue impacts Nexus, Samsung, and smartphones from other vendors as well. Appleu2019s iOS was also impacted by the bug, and the company released an emergency fix for it earlier this week.u00a0  19 other Critical issues were addressed in various Qualcomm components and were released as part of Qualcomm AMSS security bulletins between 2014 and 2016 (a 20th vulnerability considered only High risk was also counted here in Googleu2019s advisory). The rest of the Critical flaws included RCE issues in kernel networking subsystem and Qualcomm crypto engine driver, along with EoP bugs in MediaTek touchscreen driver, HTC touchscreen driver, and kernel ION subsystem. The remaining 38 High risk vulnerabilities in this patch level were mostly EoP bugs in kernel sound subsystem, and various drivers, but 2 RCE flaws (in v8 and Freetype), four information disclosure issues (in kernel memory and kernel networking subsystems, Qualcomm TrustZone, and Qualcomm IPA driver), and two DoS flaws (in kernel networking subsystem and Qualcomm Wi-Fi driver) were also resolved. The 15 Moderate risk issues included EoP and information disclosure issues in various drivers from Qualcomm, Broadcom, and Nvidia (one EoP was addressed in HTC OEM fastboot command and one information disclosure was resolved in kernel media driver). " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3598e06cefc42d78dc5ed9" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Critical Vulnerability Plagues 60% of Android Devices", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/critical-vulnerability-plagues-60-android-devices", "Date" : "May 23, 2016", "Article" : "A Critical Elevation of Privilege (EoP) vulnerability in the Qualcomm Secure Execution Environment (QSEE) affects around 60 percent of all Android devices around the world, despite being already fixed, researchers warn.u00a0 The culprit is an EoP flaw in the Widevine QSEE TrustZone application, namely CVE-2015-6639, which was resolved in January when Google issued patches for 12 security flaws in Android. The bug could enable a compromised, privileged application with access to QSEECOM to execute arbitrary code in the Trustzone context. A short explanation of how the bug works would be the following: QSEECOM is a Linux kernel device that allows regular user-space processes such as the mediaserver (which runs in the normal operating system, or u201cNormal Worldu201d) to communicate with trusted applications (or trustlets) in a secure OS that manages protected services and hardware (which is called u201cSecure Worldu201d). Thus, malicious code running in the Normal World can call trustlets and exploit vulnerabilities in them to compromise the device.u00a0 The TrustZone kernel operates within the Secure World, while QSEECOM within the Normal World, but both are part of the Kernel Mode. In this specific case, an attacker able to run malicious code in mediaserver can exploit an application running in the Secure World (Widevineu2019s DRM software) to gain full control over the affected device by modifying the Normal Worldu2019s Linux kernel. Gal Beniamini explained in a recent blog post that QSEE is extremely privileged, which allows it to interact directly with the TrustZone kernel and access the hardware-secured TrustZone file-system (SFS). Moreover, it has direct access to the system's memory, which allows an attacker to hijack the Linux Kernel without having to find and exploit a Kernel vulnerability. However, the attacker would still have to exploit a vulnerability in mediaserver, and those are not in short supply, thatu2019s for sure. Starting with mid-2015, when the Stagefright vulnerability was initially disclosed, Google has been patching bugs in mediaserver monthly, and the May 2016 security update for Nexus devices included such a patch as well.  The issue, discovered last year by Gal Beniamini, affects 75 percent of all Android devices powered by a Qualcomm processor, security firm Duo Securityu00a0claims. According to Duo, around 80 percent of all Android devices have a Qualcomm processor inside, but just 25 percent of users have applied the patch, meaning that 60 percent of devices continue to be vulnerable.  While eligible devices already received the January 2016 security update, there are millions of them that havenu2019t. With this patch being the only fix for the vulnerability, manufacturers need to apply it to their devices and send it to carriers, while carriers need to approve and deploy it. However, the process is slow and older devices are most often left out of this update cycle, meaning that millions of users wonu2019t receive the patch. Ever. According to Duo researchers, an analysis of their dataset of 500,000 enterprise devices revealed that around 27 percent of all Android devices out there remain permanently vulnerable to this bug. To mitigate that, manufacturers and carriers would need to build and approve a patch for the specific Android version the affected devices run under.  In March, researchers at FireEye published the details of a serious information disclosure vulnerability affecting a Qualcomm software package found in hundreds of Android device models. The issue was found in the Qualcomm tethering controller (CVE-2016-2060) and could allow a malicious application to access user information.  Also in March, Google released an emergency security patch for Android devices in an attempt to resolve a local elevation of privilege vulnerability in the kernel, after researchers discovered that the flaw was already being abused by rooting applications.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599206cefc42d78dc5f41" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Researcher Hijacks Android Phone via Chrome Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/researcher-hijacks-android-phone-chrome-vulnerability", "Date" : "November 13, 2015", "Article" : "Over the past few months, Google has been busy squashing security vulnerabilities in its popular Android mobile operating system, but many remain undiscovered, and some can be easily exploited.  Chinese researcher Guang Gong from Qihoo 360 demonstrated at MobilePwn2Own at the PacSec conference in Tokyo how an Android device running the latest version of the operating system can be hijacked by exploiting a JavaScript v8 vulnerability through the Chrome browser. Granted, the security flaw did not reside in the Android OS itself, but devices running on the platform are vulnerable. Gong discovered a JavaScript v8 vulnerability in Chrome for Android that allowed him to install an arbitrary application on the affected device, in this case a BMX Bike game, without requiring any user interaction, PacSec organizer Dragos Ruiu explained in a Google+ post. As long as Chrome is used to navigate to a malicious site an attacker set up, the device can be infected. The exploit was demonstrated on a Google Project Fi Nexus 6 running the latest Android 6.0 Marshmallow build and with all applications up-to-date. The researcher demonstrated that the vulnerability could provide an attacker with complete control of the device, and that successful exploitation does not require chaining multiple vulnerabilities. This one shot exploit was revealed after three-months of work, Ruiu said, but exact details on the security flaw were not publicly disclosed. According to Ruiu, the exploit was tested on other devices as well, and it worked on all of them. Given that the vulnerability is in the JavaScript engine in Chrome, it is believed to affect all Android versions with the latest version of the browser installed. Details on the vulnerability were handed to a Chrome engineer at the conference, Ruiu announced via Twitter.  Unfortunately for Gong, his presentation at the conference did not result in an immediate reward for his efforts, though it is likely that Google will reward him for discovering the vulnerability, as the company has a bug bounty program set up for Chrome and Chrome OS.  u201cSince we don't have any lavish prizes for him, I'm bringing him to Canada next year for some skiing/snowboarding at CanSecWest,u201d Ruiu said, so it seems that a prize will be coming from the PacSec organizers.  Google will most likely resolve the vulnerability soon, even if the details on the exploit havenu2019t been made public as of now.   Security researchers have discovered a series of critical Android vulnerabilities this year, including the Stagefright flaw that affected close to a billion devices, and a Stagefright 2 issue suspected to affect devices running all Android versions, starting with the initial release.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599456cefc42d78dc5f7b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "BlackBerry to Push Monthly Security Updates for Android-based PRIV Smartphones", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/blackberry-push-monthly-security-updates-android-based-priv-smartphone", "Date" : "November 05, 2015", "Article" : "Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry is the latest Android-phone maker to commit to releasing monthly security patches for its devices to resolve vulnerabilities discovered in the popular mobile operating system. The struggling smartphone maker announced its plans in September to sell the Android-powered PRIV smartphone in an effort to recover from slowing device sales. The PRIV smartphone is expected to start shipping the week of Nov. 9, 2015. In August, Google announced plans to release monthly updates to patch newly discovered security flaws in the Android platform, and vendors such as Samsungu00a0and LG have confirmed plans to follow Googleu2019s lead. The Internet giant releases a security bulletin containing a list of new flaws to Android OEMs, and makes them public approximately one month later, when it releases its own set of updates. BlackBerry says it will focus on pushing the security patches before Google makes them public, and plans on having all BlackBerry PRIV devices purchased through shopblackberry.com immediately updated. Additionally, the company will release the updates to PRIV resellers (carriers and other authorized dealers) participating in the monthly update program to approve and push them over-the-air (OTA) to subscribers. In case of critical Android vulnerabilities that cannot wait for a monthly update cycle, BlackBerry will opt to release a hotfix, though the severity of the issue, the complexity of the fix, and the timing relative to the monthly update cycle will influence that decision. The company will directly patch all PRIV variants when necessary to protect users and enterprises, David Kleidermacher, Chief Security Officer at BlackBerry, noted in a blog post.  The smartphone designer will also provide IT managers with increased control over OS updates through BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES) and OTA management systems. u201cSetting the bar in incident response and patch management is a critical part of the BlackBerry end-to-end Android privacy strategy,u201d Kleidermacher concluded. A series of critical vulnerabilities discovered in Android this year prompted an industry-wide response to release security updates sooner, starting with patches for the infamous Stagefright flaw discovered in July. To further improve the safety of the mobile platform, Google last month announced mandatory full-disk encryption for Android 6.0 Marshmallow devices, a feature that BlackBerry PRIV users can also take advantage of. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35994c6cefc42d78dc5f87" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Critical, High Severity Flaws Patched in Firefox", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/critical-high-severity-flaws-patched-firefox", "Date" : "April 28, 2016", "Article" : "Mozilla has patched a total of 14 vulnerabilities, including ones rated critical and high severity, with the release of Firefox 46. Firefox 46 addresses four critical issues, described as memory safety bugs affecting the browser engine. The flaws, discovered by Mozilla developers, can lead to crashes and, in some circumstances, to arbitrary code execution. The following CVE identifiers have been assigned to the critical vulnerabilities: CVE-2016-2804, CVE-2016-2805, CVE-2016-2806 and CVE-2016-2807. Of the five high severity issues resolved in the latest Firefox release, one was reported to Mozilla by the Communications-Electronics Security Group (CESG), the information security arm of the UKu2019s Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ). u201cThe CESG [...] reported that the JavaScript .watch() method could be used to overflow the 32-bit generation count of the underlying HashMap, resulting in a write to an invalid entry,u201d Mozilla said in its advisory. If certain conditions are met, it could be possible to exploit the flaw (CVE-2016-2808) for arbitrary code execution, but Mozilla pointed out that an attacker would need to get the victim to keep a malicious page open for an extended period of time until the overflow is triggered. Another high severity vulnerability, one that can be exploited via specially crafted web content to trigger a potentially exploitable crash, has been reported by researcher Sascha Just. The weakness, tracked as CVE-2016-2814, is caused by a buffer overflow in the libstagefright library. A high severity vulnerability that only affects Firefox for Android (CVE-2016-2813) was reported by the research team at Newcastle University in the UK. Researchers discovered that an attacker can deduce touch actions by using JavaScript to access a mobile deviceu2019s orientation data and motion sensors. This can lead to the exposure of user activity and information, including the deviceu2019s PIN. Another issue that only affects the Android version of Firefox was identified by Ken Okuyama. He found a moderate severity bug that allows a malicious application to read data, including browser history and locally saved passwords. Only Android versions prior to 5.0 are affected. Researcher Loober Yang has been credited for identifying two high severity flaws related to Service Workers (CVE-2016-2811 and CVE-2016-2812). The list of moderate severity issues patched in Firefox includes a privilege escalation through file deletion, a web extension privilege escalation, and a Health Report weakness. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599526cefc42d78dc5f92" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Samsung Patches Critical Vulnerabilities in Android Devices", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/samsung-patches-critical-vulnerabilities-android-devices", "Date" : "January 28, 2016", "Article" : "Samsung has released a maintenance update for its major Android flagship Galaxy models to resolve 16 vulnerabilities in these devices.  The updates, available as part of the companyu2019s monthly Security Maintenance Release (SMR) process, include all patches released by Google up to itsu00a0January 2016u00a0Android Security Bulletin. The release also includes several Samsung Vulnerabilities and Exposures (SVE) items. Samsungu2019s January 2016 SMR includes a patch for a remote code execution (RCE) vulnerability in Android Mediaserver (CVE-2015-6636)u00a0rated as Critical. During the media file and data processing of a specially crafted file, an attacker could exploit the flaw to cause memory corruption and remote code execution.The vulnerability appears to be similar in scope to theu00a0u201cStagefrightu201d vulnerabilityu00a0that was disclosed in July 2015, which affected nearly one billion Android devices. Googleu2019s initial patchu00a0did not properly addressu00a0the mediaserver service flaw. Another Critical flaw addressed in the updates is CVE-2015-6617, a flaw in Skia that allows remote attackers to execute arbitrary code or cause a denial of service via a crafted media file. The vulnerability was resolved by Google in the December 2015 bulletin, and Samsung included it in its December SMR too. This month, Samsung Android devices also received fixes for a series of Android flaws rated Medium risk, such as CVE-2015-6643, CVE-2015-5310, CVE-2015-6644, CVE-2015-6645, all of which were patched in Googleu2019s December 2015 or January 2016 updates for the Nexus devices.  Of the 7 SVE items included in Samsungu2019s January 2016 SMR, three are rated Critical and could result in arbitrary code execution, memory corruption, or FRP/RL bypass. The first could be triggered when a malformed BMP image is scanned by a facial recognition library, the second is a flaw in u2018libQjpeg.sou2019 and can be triggered by a malformed JPEG file, while the third is a bug in download mode that can reset the FRP/RL partition by using u2018Odinu2019 protocol, according to the release notes. Samsung also patched a vulnerability resulting from a combination of unprivileged local apps being able to access some providers and an SQL injection (SQLi) flaw, which allowed applications to access all messages from SecEmail. The update also resolves a memory corruption issue rated Medium, along with a Low rated bug that could cause crashes when malicious service commands were called. Samsung didnu2019t provide information on all SVEs included in the package, but revealed that at least two of the bugs affect the Samsung Galaxy S6 smartphone. Users are advised to install the security updates as soon as possible, to ensure their devices are protected from any attempts to exploit the fixed vulnerabilities.   Samsung began delivering monthly updates to its Android users in October 2015, after announcing such plans in August. The move followed Googleu2019s decision to resolve flaws in the mobile OS on a monthly basis, after the critical u201cStagefrightu201d vulnerability u00a0was found in July to affect nearly one billion devices.u00a0  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35995a6cefc42d78dc5f9f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Firefox 44 Drops RC4, Gets Push Notifications", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/firefox-44-drops-rc4-gets-push-notifications", "Date" : "January 27, 2016", "Article" : "Firefox 44, the latest version of Mozillau2019s web browser, is now available for download and comes with a series of security patches, and has fully removed support for the RC4 cipher. Released on Tuesday, the latest iteration of the application is meant to resolve various vulnerabilities, including five that are rated Critical, three rated High, six Moderate, and one low risk issue. It also brings new features to Windows, Mac and Linux machines, the most notable of which is support for push notifications from websites. In addition to resolving security flaws, the browser improves security by no longer trusting the Equifax Secure Certificate Authority 1024-bit root certificate or the UTN - DATACorp SGC for certificate validation, the release notes reveal. It also uses a SHA-256 signing certificate for Windows builds, to meet new signing requirements, and also removes support for the old and vulnerable RC4 cipher. RC4 has been around since 1987 and has been widely used in web applications and online services, but vulnerabilities in it were found to allow attackers easily crack it. Last year, researchers discovered both new attacks against RC4 and the fact that such attacks are increasingly practical and feasible, and browser makers decided to kill support for it.  Given that Mozilla has completely removed support for RC4 in Firefox 44, users will no longer be able to connect to servers that require the encryption cipher. Many sites still offer support for RC4, as F5 Networks evangelist David Holmes explained in a November 2015 SecurityWeek column, but Mozilla says that u201cFirefox users encounter them at very low rates.u201d Mozillau2019s Firefox 44 security advisoryu00a0reveals that the browser patches three unsafe memory manipulation flaws discovered by researcher Ronald Crane through code inspection. These include a high rated memory safety issue in the ANGLE graphics library, a moderate rated potential wild pointer flaw when handling zip files, and a critical rated integer overflow during metadata parsing in Mozilla's use of the libstagefright library. No clear mechanisms to exploit the first two vulnerabilities through web content has been found as of yet, but Craneu2019s finding was given a Critical risk rating because the libstagefright issue. It could be triggered during the playback of a malicious MP4 format video file, allowing for arbitrary code execution u2013 the bug resembles the Stagefright flaws found in Android last year, which are still being patched.  Firefox 44 also resolves a buffer overflow in WebGL after out of memory allocation, which was discovered by researcher Aki Helin and which could lead to a potentially exploitable crash. The updated browser also resolves various memory corruption issues that appear under certain circumstances and which could be exploited to run arbitrary code.  Mozilla also resolved errors in mp_div and mp_exptmod cryptographic functions in NSS, a flaw rated High, along with two addressbar spoofing attack vulnerabilities. Affecting the desktop browser, the first flaw allows for the addressbar contents to be manipulated, while the second affects Firefox for Android and would scroll the addressbar out of view and replace it with a fake one when a new tab is opened. Starting with Firefox 44, Windows, Mac and Linux users can receive push notifications from websites that have permission to send these notifications. Mozilla saysu00a0that these notifications would appear even if the website is not loaded in a tab, meaning that users no longer need to manually check email, weather, social networks and shopping sites for updates. The push notifications are similar to Web notifications and users can enable them by clicking on the green lock icon on the left side of the address bar to enable them, or can head to the Control Center to manage notifications. Mozillau2019s Dan Callahan explains that websites receive anonymous Web Push identifiers, payloads are encrypted, and the service is enabled only for active Web Push subscriptions, all of which should keep usersu2019 privacy safe. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599706cefc42d78dc5fc1" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Android Stagefright Exploit Released", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/android-stagefright-exploit-released-testing-purposes", "Date" : "September 09, 2015", "Article" : "Enterprise mobile security firm Zimperium has published an exploit for one of the most critical Android Stagefright vulnerabilities disclosed this summer. The existence of several serious vulnerabilities in Androidu2019s libstagefright media library was brought to light in July by Zimperium. Experts initially estimated that the vulnerabilities, which affect all Android versions since 2.2, impacted roughly 950 million devices. After the security firmu2019s initial disclosure of the bugs, several other researchers reported uncovering libstagefright and other mediaserver flaws. The list of CVE identifiers assigned to Stagefright vulnerabilities includes CVE-2015-1538, CVE-2015-1539, CVE-2015-3824, CVE-2015-3826, CVE-2015-3827, CVE-2015-3828, CVE-2015-3864 and CVE-2015-3829. Google and other affected vendors released patches and Zimperium published a Stagefright detector app to help Android users determine if their devices are vulnerable. The security firm announced on Wednesday that it has released a proof-of-concept exploit designed to show that CVE-2015-1538 can be exploited for remote code execution without user interaction. The exploit, available as a Python script, can be used by administrators, security teams and pentesters to determine if systems remain vulnerable or not, Zimperium said. u201cThis is one of the most critical vulnerabilities we reported in the Stagefright library. The expected result of the exploit is a reverse shell as the media user,u201d Zimperium explained in a blog post. u201cAs detailed in Joshua Drakeu2019s Black Hat and DEFCON presentations, this user has access to quite a few groups such as inet, audio, camera, and mediadrm. These groups allow an attacker to take pictures or listen to the microphone remotely without exploiting additional vulnerabilities.u201d The company has pointed out that the exploit has only been tested on a Nexus device running Android 4.0.4 and itu2019s not 100 percent reliable by itself. Shortly after the existence of the Stagefright vulnerabilities came to light, Google announced its intention to release monthly security updates for its Nexus devices. The August updates addressed many of the Stagefright flaws, but researchers soon discovered that the patch for CVE-2015-3824 was flawed. Google has assigned CVE-2015-3864 to the new issue, which the company is expected to fix with the next round of updates. The Stagefright vulnerabilities have had a negative impact on the already bad security reputation of the Android ecosystem. That is why several device vendors, including Samsung, LG and Motorola, have promised to step up their game and release regular security updates to ensure that users are protected. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599996cefc42d78dc6029" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches More Critical Vulnerabilities in Android Mediaserver", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-patches-more-critical-vulnerabilities-android-mediaserver", "Date" : "April 05, 2016", "Article" : "Googleu2019s latest set of Nexus patches are rolling out now to resolve multiple Critical vulnerabilities in Android, including a series of remote code execution (RCE) flaws in the mediaserver component. Since last July, when mobile security firm Zimperium revealed a series of critical RCE flaws in the Androidu00a0Stagefrightu00a0media playback engine, Google has been constantly struggling to patch similar issues. In October, as part of the over-the-air monthly updates rolling out to Nexus devices, the Internet giant patched a second Stagefright flaw. Google continued to resolve vulnerabilities in Androidu2019s mediaserver in subsequent monthly updates for the popular mobile operating system. An RCE issue was resolved in January, amid a total of 12 vulnerabilities in Android, and two more RCE flaws were patched last month, when Google fixed 16 security bugs in the platform.  The April 2016 Nexus Security Bulletin details 29 security patches, including one for an elevation of privilege (EoP) vulnerability that was fixed with an emergency security patch on March 18. The new round of security updates resolve a total of 39 vulnerabilities in Android, 15 of which are rated Critical, 16 High, and 8 Moderate.  The most important of these appear to be the seven RCE issues in mediaserver (CVE-2016-0835 to CVE-2016-0841), which impact Android 4.4.4, 5.0.2, 5.1.1, 6.0, and 6.0.1 releases. The flaws could be exploited during media file and data processing of a specially crafted file, and attacks can be performed via MMS, browser, and other applications.  Googleu2019s April security bulletin also patches an RCE issue in Media Codec (CVE-2016-0834) and another one in libstagefright (CVE-2016-0842), both affecting Android 6.0 and Android 6.0.1 and both related to the media playback engine. In July, Zimperiu revealed that libstagefright include a Critical flow that affected over 950 million devices, yet Google didnu2019t patch it properly in the first place.  Other newly resolved Critical vulnerabilities also include two issues (CVE-2014-6060 and CVE-2016-1503) that affect the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) service and which could result in RCE in the context of the DHCP client. The issues impact Android 4.4.4, 5.0.2, 5.1.1, 6.0, and 6.0.1.  The new set of security updates also patched three elevation of privilege flaws, one in Qualcomm Performance Module (CVE-2016-0843), affecting Android 4.4.4 to 6.0.1 releases, one in Qualcomm RF component (CVE-2016-0844), affecting Android 6.0 and 6.0.1, and another one in Kernel (CVE-2014-9322), affecting Android 6.0 and 6.0.1. Most of the High severity vulnerabilities fixed in the April security bulletin are EoP bugs, affecting IMemory Native Interface, Telecom Component, Download Manager, Recovery Procedure, Bluetooth, Texas Instruments Haptic Driver, a Video Kernel Driver, Qualcomm Power Management Component, System_server, and Mediaserver. Google also resolved a denial of service issue in Minikin, and five information disclosure vulnerabilities, one in Exchange ActiveSync and four in Mediaserver. According to Google, Nexus devices with Security Patch Levels of April 2, 2016 or later installed on them are protected from these flaws. Owners of Android devices coming from other manufacturers will have to wait a bit longer for these security updates to arrive, except for BlackBerry PRIV owners, who are already receiving them. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35999c6cefc42d78dc6031" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Overwhelming Majority of Android Devices Don't Have Latest Security Patches", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/overwhelming-majority-android-devices-dont-have-latest-security-patches", "Date" : "June 29, 2016", "Article" : "Only 17% of Android Devices Have Latest Security Patches Although roughly 68% of all Android devices are eligible to receive monthly security updates, the vast majority donu2019t have the latest security patches applied, a recent report from Duo Security reveals.  For nearly a year, Google has been releasing monthly security patches for the Android operating system, while also urging partner manufacturers to update their products in a timely manner, but few are the devices that actually receive the latest security updates. According to Duo Security, 75% of eligible phones didnu2019t receive the latest available security patches, as of April 30.  What this means is that, although only 32% of Android phones and tablets canu2019t receive monthly updates, the vast majority of those that can remain unpatched. Overall, 51% of Android phones are eligible devices that lack the latest security patches, and only 17% of phones have been updated to the latest security fixes, Duo Security says.  Last year, in the aftermath of the Stagefright bug, Google began releasing monthly security updates for Nexus devices. While Google continues to patch flaws in Androidu2019s mediaserver, including a second Stagefright vulnerability, large Android manufacturers such as Samsung, LG, Motorola, and HTC havenu2019t yet picked up the pace to deliver security patches to their users in a timely manner.  As Duo Securityu2019s Olabode Anise points out, Google wasnu2019t quick about it either: the first Android version was released in September 2008, but the monthly security updates started rolling out only in 2015.  u201cDuring the preceding seven years, Google, OEMs and carriers were often lackadaisical when it came to delivering security updates in a timely manner,u201d Anise explains.  The Duo Security researcher also notes that u201c3 out of 10 Android devices hadnu2019t applied a security patch released since the start of 2016, thus leaving them susceptible to exploits for 24 critical vulnerabilities.u201d Other issues with Android devices include the lack of a screenlock on 34% of them, the presence of root on 5%, and the lack of pre-boot passcode encryption on 92% of devices.  At the moment, Samsung is the leading Android OEM by number of devices, accounting for 62% of the Android devices that could receive monthly updates, the security firm notes. However, only 15% of the companyu2019s phones have received its monthly security patches. When it comes to the top Android handsets in use, Galaxy devices are those running outdated operating system versions, researchers say.  LG and Motorola, both with around 13% market share in the Android segment, have deployed the latest security patches to nearly 40% of their eligible devices, while HTC updated almost none of them. Huawei is the manufacturer most committed to keeping users safe, it seems: the company has pushed the monthly security patches to 77% of the handsets eligible to receive them. From an enterprise perspective, the fact that only 17% of Android phones out there run the latest security update represents a high risk. Any network is as vulnerable as its most vulnerable device and the advent of BYOD means that outdated devices could severely threaten the security of an entire enterprise. According to Duo Security, enterprises should educate users on the importance of keeping their devices updated at all times and should also provide them with the information they need to successfully upgrade their devices. Moreover, they should notify users when new updates are available and should use an endpoint security solution that will provide details on the patch level of devices on the network. u201cManufactures and carriers alike should work to bring automatic updates to their customers. By doing so, they would alleviate the burden customers and IT administrators have of manually applying updates, shorten the window of time attackers have to exploit vulnerabilities after theyu2019ve been disclosed and bring better operating system performance to their user without sacrificing business productivity,u201d Anise concludes. Last month, Duo Security warned about a Critical Elevation of Privilege (EoP) vulnerability in the Qualcomm Secure Execution Environment (QSEE) that affects around 60 percent of all Android devices worldwide.  Earlier this month, Google announced a series of improvements to the Android Security Rewards program, including higher bug bounty payouts. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599b36cefc42d78dc606f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches Stagefright 2.0 Flaws on Nexus Devices", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-patches-stagefright-20-flaws-nexus-devices", "Date" : "October 06, 2015", "Article" : "Google on Monday released a security update for Nexus devices, aimed at resolving recently disclosed critical security vulnerabilities the media playback engine in Android, called Stagefright 2.0. Disclosed last week by security firm Zimperium, the issues affect libstagefright and libutils, and affect all Android devices, including those running under version 1.0 of the platform, which has was released in 2008. Both of these flaws are rated Critical and could result in remote code execution on the affected devices.  Two vulnerabilities in libutils were patched in Googleu2019s October 2015 Nexus Security Bulletin, featuring Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) identifiers CVE-2015-3875 and CVE-2015-6602. Both flaws exist in audio file processing and affect all devices running Android 5.1 and below.  According to Zimperium, issue resides in the processing of metadata within the files, which means that the vulnerability could be triggered even if the user simply previews the compromised MP3 audio or MP4 video file. Older devices running Android are impacted if the vulnerable function in libutils is used via third party apps or pre-loaded vendor or carrier functionality.  To exploit the vulnerability, an attacker would have to push a specially crafted file to the affected device. As soon as the file is processed, it would cause memory corruption and remote code execution in a service that uses the libutils library, including mediaserver. The functionality is used by multiple applications and remote content can reach it via email, MMS, and browser playback.  Newer Google Hangouts and Messenger applications remove the primary attack vector of MMS, which means that an attacker interested in exploiting the vulnerability would need to use the Web browser to execute an attack by convincing a user to visit a URL directing to a malicous Web site.  The issue could also be exploited by an attacker on the same network with the affected device through a Man-in-the-Middle (MiTM) attack through. Additionally, 3rd party apps (Media Players, Instant Messengers, etc.) that are using the vulnerable library can be exploited.  Googleu2019s new security update for Nexus devices patches 15 vulnerabilities in libstagefright, all of which could be exploited during media file and data processing of a specially crafted file to cause memory corruption and remote code execution. Rated Critical, these vulnerabilities impact all Android 5.1 and below versions.  Overall, 20 security flaws with a Critical severity score have been patched by Google with the new set of updates for Nexus users, all of which existed in media file playback. In addition to libutils and libstagefright, the vulnerabilities also affected components such as Sonivox, Skia, and libFLAC, and can be exploited when processing a specially crafted media file. In July, Zimperium discovered the Stagefright vulnerability in the Android media playback service and said at the time that it was the worst security flaw in Android, since it affected 950 million devices. Google was fast to release a security fix for it, but discovered only a few weeks later that it did not patch the issue properly. The new Stagefright 2.0 vulnerability, however, appears to be even more frightening than the one disclosed in July, since it affects even more devices and offers multiple vectors of attack. No proof-of-concept exploit for this new vulnerability is planned for public release as of now, although Zimperium released a PoC exploit for the original vulnerability in early September.  Google says that it hasnu2019t received reports that the Stagefright 2.0 vulnerabilities are being actively exploited and that it has informed its partners on the existence of the issues several weeks ago. Following the release of the updates for Nexus devices, the source code for the patches will be pushed to the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) repository so that device makers could release updates for their products as well.  The existence of the Stagefright 2.0 vulnerability in Android u201chighlights a fundamental security issue across the entire software spectrum,u201d Chris Wysopal, CISO and CTO, Veracode, told SecurityWeek. Developers looking to accelerate time-to-market often integrate vulnerable code libraries into their applications not knowing that they include security flaws. In the case of Stagefright, developers trust the library because it is the default way of handling media files in Android.  u201cPatching for Stagefright vulnerabilities seem to continue to be a challenge for the Android community. Googleu2019s done a good job issuing updates, however, waiting for handset manufacturers or carriers to issue a patch has proven to be problematic since many of the 1.0 patches still havenu2019t been rolled out to end-users. Companies need to manage risk posed by both operating system and application threats using tools such as MDM platforms in conjunction with mobile application security software,u201d Wysopal said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599b36cefc42d78dc6071" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches Critical Flaw in Android Mediaserver", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-patches-critical-flaw-android-mediaserver", "Date" : "January 05, 2016", "Article" : "Google on Monday released the latest set of updates for its Android operating system (OS), including fixes for five critical security vulnerabilities found in the popular mobile OS.  The January 2016 Nexus Security Bulletinu00a0resolves 12 security flaws in the mobile operating system, including two rated high risk and five moderate, in addition to the five rated as critical.  The most severe of the newly fixed bugs in Android is a remote code execution (RCE) vulnerability in Mediaserver, which could allow an attacker to cause memory corruption and remote code execution during media file and data processing of a specially crafted file. The issue has received the Common Vulnerability and Exposures ID (CVE) CVE-2015-6636 and affects Android 5.0, 5.1.1, 6.0, and 6.0.1 versions.  The mediaserver service has access to audio and video streams and privileges unavailable for third-party apps and is provided as a core part of Android with multiple applications being able to reach it with remote content, including MMS and browser playback of media. The issue was discovered by Googleu2019s employees and builds LMY49F or later and Android 6.0 with Security Patch Level of January 1, 2016 or later address it. The vulnerability appears to be similar in scope to the u201cStagefrightu201d vulnerability that was disclosed in July 2015, which affected nearly one billion Android devices. Googleu2019s initial patch did not properly address the mediaserver service flaw. Google committed to releasing monthly security fixes for the Android platform in August 2015. In September, a Stagefright exploit was released and Google patched a Stagefright 2.0 vulnerability in October, after it was discovered to affect the same libraries as the original issue.  Googleu2019s latest Nexus Security Bulletin also resolves an elevation of privilege (EoP) flaw in the misc-sd driver from MediaTek (CVE-2015-6637) and an EoP issue in a kernel driver from Imagination Technologies (CVE-2015-6638), which could allow local malicious applications execute arbitrary code within the kernel, both rated critical. The new set of security updates also resolves two critical EoP vulnerabilities in the Widevine QSEE TrustZone application (CVE-2015-6639 and CVE-2015-6647) that could enable a compromise, privileged application with access to QSEECOM to execute arbitrary code in the Trustzone context. Additionally, it patches a critical EoP in the kernel (CVE-2015-6640) that could enable a local malicious application to execute arbitrary code in the kernel. The Security Bulletin fixes two flaws rated high risk, namely an EoP in the Bluetooth component (CVE-2015-6641) that could enable a remote device paired over Bluetooth to gain access to useru2019s contacts, and an information disclosure vulnerability in the kernel (CVE-2015-6642) that could permit a bypass of security measures in place to increase the difficulty of attackers exploiting the platform. Successful exploits could gain elevated capabilities, such as Signature or SignatureOrSystem permissions privileges, Google said. The five medium risk vulnerabilities resolved in the new set of patches include an EoP in Setup Wizard (CVE-2015-6643), which requires physical access to the device; an EoP in Wi-Fi (CVE-2015-5310), which could allow access to Wi-Fi service related information; an information disclosure vulnerability in Bouncy Castle (CVE-2015-6644); and a denial of service vulnerability in the SyncManager (CVE-2015-6645). The patch also reduces attack surface exposure on Nexus devices (CVE-2015-6646) by removing SysV IPC from the OS. Google said its partners were notified on the issues about a month ago, while the source code for these patches will be released in Android Open Source Project (AOSP) repository within the next couple of days.  Last month, Google resolved 19 security vulnerabilities in the Android platform, five rated critical (), the most severe of which was also related to the mediaserver process. The companyu2019s manufacturing partners have also started to adhere to the monthly cycle of security updates, including Samsungu00a0and BlackBerry, the latter releasing the first such set of patches on Dec. 1, 2015.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599b86cefc42d78dc607e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Issues Emergency Patch For Critical Android Rooting Exploit", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-issues-emergency-patch-critical-android-rooting-exploit", "Date" : "March 21, 2016", "Article" : "Google has released an emergency security patch to address a local elevation of privilege vulnerability in the Android kernel that affects certain devices.  Deemed critical, the vulnerability (CVE-2015-1805) can be exploited by rooting applications to gain elevated privileges and run arbitrary code, which could lead to local permanent device compromise. According to Google, the issue affects all Android devices on kernel versions 3.4, 3.10 and 3.14, including all Nexus devices, but devices using Linux kernel version 3.18 or higher are not vulnerable. The elevation of privilege vulnerability in the Android kernel was found to allow local malicious applications to execute arbitrary code in the kernel. Thus, the affected device could be permanently compromised and possibly requiring a re-flash of the operating system to be repaired, the companyu2019s advisory reveals.  The vulnerability can be exploited by rooting applications that users have installed on their devices, and Google is already aware of such apps being available. However, the company notes that it has blocked the installation of software that abuses the flow, both within Google Play and outside of Google Play, through Verify Apps. Googleu2019s advisory reveals that the issue was discovered in the upstream Linux kernel and was resolved in April 2014, but it wasnu2019t deemed a security flaw until last month. On Feb. 19, Google was informed by the C0RE Team that vulnerability is exploitable on Android.  Last week, security firm Zimperium, which in 2015 discovered the Stagefright flaw in Android, warned Google that the flaw was being abused on a Nexus 5 device. According to Google, it has confirmed that a publicly available rooting application abuses the vulnerability on Nexus 5 and Nexus 6 to provide users with root privileges. When discovered last year, the Stagefright vulnerability affected Android mediaserver and was said to impact over 950 million device. Flaws in mediaserver continue to exist as the company resolved Stagefright 2.0 flaws in October and patched other Critical issues in the component this month.  A fix for the newly discovered elevation of privilege vulnerability was released in the AOSP repository for multiple kernel versions. Furthermore, the security update should be arriving on Nexus devices soon, and Google says that it notified its partners on these the fix last week, and that it would inform them when the patch is available for devices. While the issue has been confirmed on Nexus 5 and 6, all unpatched versions of Android contain the vulnerability, Google said. To stay protected, users should have on their Android devices a security patch level of March 18, 2016, or a security patch level of April 2, 2016 and later. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599ca6cefc42d78dc60ab" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "High Severity Flaw in Android Allows Arbitrary Code Execution", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/high-severity-flaw-android-allows-arbitrary-code-execution", "Date" : "August 18, 2015", "Article" : "Trend Micro mobile threat response engineer Wish Wu has identified a new Android vulnerability caused by an issue in the mobile operating systemu2019s mediaserver component. The flaw has been patched by Google. The vulnerability, a heap overflow in mediaserver's Audio Policy Service (CVE-2015-3842), affects Android versions 2.3 through 5.1.1. The flaw allows a local application to execute arbitrary code with the privileges of the mediaserver process. Several vulnerabilities have been identified recently in the mediaserver component. The list includes denial-of-service (DoS) flaws and the notorious Stagefright vulnerabilities, some of which allow remote attackers to easily take complete control of affected devices. The latest mediaserver-related vulnerability whose details have been disclosed by Trend Micro involves a component called AudioEffect. The security bug can be exploited by getting the victim to install an app that doesnu2019t require any permissions. This malicious application can then execute arbitrary code. u201cThis attack can be fully controlled, which means a malicious app can decide when to start the attack and also when to stop. An attacker would be able to run their code with the same permissions that mediaserver already has as part of its normal routines. Since the mediaserver component deals with a lot of media-related tasks including taking pictures, reading MP4 files, and recording videos, the privacy of the victim may be at risk,u201d Wu explained in a blog post. The flaw was reported to Google on June 19 and it was patched with the August 2015 security updates. Trend Micro says itu2019s not aware of active attacks leveraging this vulnerability. u201cThis issue is rated as a High severity due to the possibility of code execution as the privileged mediaserver service, from a local application. While mediaserver is guarded with SELinux, it does have access to audio and video streams as well as access to privileged kernel driver device nodes on many devices that 3rd party apps cannot normally access,u201d Google said. The search giant has pointed out that Wu is the first researcher to receive a reward as part of the Android Security Rewards program, which Google announced in June. According to the rules of the program, high severity vulnerabilities can earn bounty hunters up to $4,000. Since Wu also submitted a patch, he should have been awarded at least $2.000 for his findings. Related Reading: Samsung to Deliver Monthly Over the Air Security Updates for Android Related Reading: Google to Issue Over The Air Updates to Nexus Devices " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599cd6cefc42d78dc60b2" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches Vulnerability in "Google Admin" App for Android", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-patches-vulnerability-google-admin-app-android", "Date" : "August 17, 2015", "Article" : "Researchers identified a vulnerability in the Google Admin application for Android that could have been exploited to read arbitrary files from the appu2019s sandbox. Google says it has released an update to patch the flaw. The Google Admin application for Android is designed to allow administrators to manage their Google for Work accounts from their mobile devices. Admins of Google Apps for Work, Education, Google Coordinate, and Government can use the app to add and manage users, contact support, and view their organizationu2019s audit logs. Researchers at security firm MWR InfoSecurity discovered a medium severity vulnerability that allows malicious applications installed on the same device as Google Admin to bypass the Android sandbox and read data from any file within Adminu2019s sandbox. u201cAn issue was found when the Google Admin application received a URL via an IPC call from any other application on the same device. The Admin application would load this URL in a webview within its own activity. If an attacker used a file:// URL to a file that they controlled, then it is possible to use symbolic links to bypass Same Origin Policy and retrieve data out of the Google Admin sandbox,u201d MWR InfoSecurity wrote in an advisory published last week. According to MWR, the flaw was reported to Google in mid-March. The company noted in its advisory that the search giant had not released an update to patch the vulnerability. However, Google says it has released an update for Google Admin to address the flaw reported by MWR. The company is not aware of any attacks leveraging this security hole. u201cWe thank the researchers for flagging this to us. We have addressed the issue in the Google Admin app and the fix has been released. In order for this issue to occur, a malicious app would need to be installed on the device. As far as we know, no one has been affected,u201d a Google spokesperson told SecurityWeek. Technical details on the vulnerability are available in MWRu2019s advisory. Google announced in February that it has expanded its vulnerability reward program to mobile applications developed by the company. As far as Android is concerned, numerous vulnerabilities have been uncovered in the mobile platform over the past months. The list includes several denial-of-service (DoS) bugs, and some critical issues such as the Stagefright vulnerabilities. Related Reading: Samsung to Deliver Monthly Over the Air Security Updates for Android Related Reading: Google to Issue Over The Air Updates to Nexus Devices " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599d96cefc42d78dc60d3" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Android Stagefright Vulnerability Not Patched Properly by Google", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/android-stagefright-vulnerability-not-patched-properly-google", "Date" : "August 14, 2015", "Article" : "A patch released by Google for one of the recently disclosed Stagefright vulnerabilities affecting the Android mobile operating system is flawed, researchers have warned. Earlier this year, researchers at mobile security firm Zimperium identified several vulnerabilities in the Stagefright library used in Android (libstagefright) and other software such as Mozilla Firefox. The security holes affect all Android versions since 2.2, but releases prior to 4.1 Jelly Bean are the most exposed because Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) mitigations are not properly implemented. When the issues were disclosed in late July, experts estimated that roughly 950 million Android devices were affected by remote code execution flaws, some of which could be exploited simply by sending an MMS message to the targeted device. The Stagefright vulnerabilities have been assigned the following CVE identifiers: CVE-2015-1538, CVE-2015-1539, CVE-2015-3824, CVE-2015-3826, CVE-2015-3827, CVE-2015-3828 and CVE-2015-3829. On August 5, Google started releasing over-the-air (OTA) security updates for Nexus 4,5,6,7,9,10 and Nexus Player devices to address most of these flaws. However, shortly after the search giant started distributing the patches, researchers at Exodus Intel confirmed their suspicion that the fix for an integer overflow triggered in libstagefright during MPEG4 tx3g data processing (CVE-2015-3824) was flawed. The patch for this potential remote code execution vulnerability, consisting of only four changed lines of code, was provided to Google by Joshua Drake, the Zimperium researcher who uncovered the Stagefright flaws. Drake said the search giant accepted his patches within 48 hours after being submitted. Google has confirmed that the fix for the integer overflow vulnerability does not work as intended and assigned the CVE-2015-3864 identifier to the new issue. However, as of August 13, the company was still pushing out the updates containing the buggy patch. The search giant says it has already provided a fix to its partners. The company intends to send out the new patch to Nexus 4,5,6,7,9,10 and Nexus Player devices with the September OTA updates. u201cGoogle employs a tremendously large security staff, so much so that many members dedicate time to audit other vendoru2019s software and hold them accountable to provide a code fix within a deadline period. If Google cannot demonstrate the ability to successfully remedy a disclosed vulnerability affecting their own customers then what hope do the rest of us have?u201d Exodus Intel wrote in a blog post. Several serious flaws have been found in Android over the past weeks. Earlier this month, researchers at IBM disclosed several serialization vulnerabilities that can be exploited by malicious apps to escalate privileges, allowing attackers to take control of devices. The large number of vulnerabilities and the fact that it takes a lot of time for patches to reach devices due to the fragmentation of the ecosystem have made Android a tempting target for cybercriminals. Device manufacturers have started to acknowledging the importance of time sensitivity when it comes to addressing critical vulnerabilities, which is why Google, Samsung and other companies recently promised to provide regular security updates. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599d96cefc42d78dc60d4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Mozilla Patches Critical Flaws With Release of Firefox 43", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/mozilla-patches-critical-flaws-release-firefox-43", "Date" : "December 16, 2015", "Article" : "Mozilla has announced the availability of Firefox 43, a release that brings fixes for 21 security flaws and several feature improvements, including a 64-bit version for Windows. Firefox 43 resolves a total of four vulnerabilities rated critical. One of them, reported by Tsubasa Iinuma, can be exploited for cross-site reading attacks (CVE-2015-7214) by bypassing cross-origin restrictions using data: and view-source: URIs to confuse protections. A use-after-free vulnerability in WebRTC (CVE-2015-7210) that can lead to a potentially exploitable crash has been reported by Looben Yang. Mozilla developer Kris Maglione discovered a privilege escalation issue related to WebExtension APIs (CVE-2015-7223). The vulnerability can be exploited to execute arbitrary code with the privileges of the affected WebExtension, which could lead to cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks and personal information theft. Memory safety bugs (CVE-2015-7201 and CVE-2015-7202) found by Mozilla developers and community members have also been rated critical. The list of high severity issues patched in Firefox 43 includes an integer underflow in the libstagefright library (Stagefright flaw reported by Zimperiumu2019s Joshua Drake), an integer overflow when processing MP4 video files, an underflow in RTPReceiverVideo, an integer overflow when allocating extremely large textures during graphics operations, and a flaw that can lead to a crash during JavaScript variable assignments. Researcher Masato Kinugawa reported finding a cross-origin information leak (CVE-2015-7215) that affects other browsers as well. Another vulnerability that is not limited to Mozilla products is a same-origin policy violation that can be exploited for data theft (CVE-2015-7207). Google released an update for Chrome 47 on Tuesday to address a couple of vulnerabilities identified by the companyu2019s own security team. This is the second security update for Chrome 47, the first being released on December 8 to patch seven issues. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599e66cefc42d78dc60f6" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Firefox 40 Patches Vulnerabilities, Expands Malware Protection", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/firefox-40-patches-vulnerabilities-expands-malware-protection", "Date" : "August 12, 2015", "Article" : "Mozilla announced on Tuesday that Firefox 40 is available for download. The latest version of the popular web browser adds support for Windows 10, patches several vulnerabilities, and expands malware protection. Firefox 40 fixes roughly 20 vulnerabilities, some of which have been rated critical. The critical issues, which can result in exploitable crashes, have been detailed by Mozilla in four security advisories. The list of critical vulnerabilities includes buffer overflows in the Libvpx library when decoding malformed WebM video files (CVE-2015-4485, CVE-2015-4486), integer overflows in the libstagefright library (CVE-2015-4479, CVE-2015-4480, CVE-2015-4493), a use-after-free in the way audio is handled through the Web Audio API during MediaStream playback (CVE-2015-4477), and a couple of memory safety bugs found by Mozilla developers and members of the community (CVE-2015-4473, CVE-2015-4474). A use-after-free related to the XMLHttpRequest JavaScript object, a heap overflow in the gdk-pixbuf library (only affects Linux running Gnome), an out-of-bounds write in the updater, an arbitrary file overwriting issue through the Mozilla Maintenance Service, an out-of-bounds read triggered during malformed MP3 playback, and three vulnerabilities reported through code inspection have been rated u201chigh severity.u201d Over the past months, Google has made several improvements to Safe Browsing, a service designed to alert users if they are about to download malicious software or visit a potentially dangerous website. Mozilla also uses Safe Browsing to keep its customers safe and starting with Firefox 40 users will be warned when they visit pages known to contain deceptive software that can make unwanted changes to the computer. Users who donu2019t like the warnings or donu2019t want to send any data to Google can disable the features provided by Safe Browsing. Another security announcement made recently by Mozilla is related to the signing of add-ons and extensions. u201cMozilla will begin requiring all extensions to be signed in order for them to be installable in Release and Beta versions of Firefox. Signing will be done through addons.mozilla.org (AMO) and will be mandatory for all extensions, regardless of where they are hosted,u201d Mozilla said. This measure will be implemented in three stages. Starting with Firefox 40, users are warned about signatures, but the policy is not enforced. In Firefox 41, scheduled to be released on September 22, the web browser will have a preference that allows signature enforcement to be disabled. In Firefox 42, currently set for release on November 3, this option will be removed and unsigned extensions will no longer be allowed. On August 6, Mozilla released an update for Firefox 39 to address a zero-day vulnerability that had been exploited in the wild to inject malware that could search for and upload potentially sensitive local files. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a006cefc42d78dc6139" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Samsung to Deliver Monthly Over the Air Security Updates for Android", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/samsung-deliver-monthly-over-air-security-updates-android", "Date" : "August 05, 2015", "Article" : "Samsung to Deliver Regular Security Updates Around Once a Month to Android-based Galaxy Devices  Smartphone maker Samsung said on Wednesday that it soon will implement a new Android security update process that fast tracks mobile security patches over the air when security vulnerabilities are uncovered.  The security updates for the popular Android mobile OS will take place regularly about once per month to Galaxy devices, the company said.  The South Korea-based maker of popular Android smartphones said that it recently fast tracked security updates to its Galaxy devices in response to the recent Android u201cStagefrightu201d vulnerabilities uncovered late last month by security firm Zimperium.  Described by Zimperium as the u201cworstu201d Android flaws discovered to date, the series of critical remote code execution vulnerabilities allow a malicious actor to compromise an Android device simply by knowing the targeted useru2019s phone number and sending an MMS message. u00a0 Acknowledging the importance of time sensitivity in addressing major vulnerabilities, the company said that it plans to further develop the process and implement it as a timely and ongoing security update practice.  u201cWith the recent security issues, we have been rethinking the approach to getting security updates to our devices in a more timely manner," said Dong Jin Koh, EVP of Mobile Research and Development at Samsung Electronics. "Since software is constantly exploited in new ways, developing a fast response process to deliver security patches to our devices is critical to keep them protected. We believe that this new process will vastly improve the security of our devices and will aim to provide the best mobile experience possible for our users." Samsung said that it is currently discussing the new approach to addressing security flaws with carriers around the world, noting that more details about the specific models and timelines will be released soon. In addition to Samsung,u00a0Google also saidu00a0on Wednesday that it has started a new Android monthly security update process for its Nexus devices. News of the efforts by Google and Samsung is a huge win for Android users. For years, wireless carriers and phone manufacturers have been accused of putting profits over protection and dragging their feet on regular operating system updates, making Android users vulnerable to malware and other attacks. Related Reading: Carriers Cripple Android, Prioritize Profits Over Protection *Updated with details on Google issuing updates " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a066cefc42d78dc6147" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches DoS Vulnerability Affecting Most Android Devices", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/google-patches-dos-vulnerability-affecting-most-android-devices", "Date" : "August 04, 2015", "Article" : "Researchers at Trend Micro have reported finding a second denial-of-service (DoS) vulnerability in Androidu2019s u201cmediaserveru201d component. According to the security firm, the affected service is present in Android 4.0.1 Jelly Bean through 5.1.1 Lollipop. As of August 3, roughly 95 percent of Android devices were running vulnerable versions of the operating system. Furthermore, experts noted that devices with customized versions of Android that run the same mediaserver are also impacted. The vulnerability (CVE-2015-3823) is caused by an integer overflow that is triggered when mediaserver processes a malformed MKV video file. The issue causes affected Android devices to enter an endless loop when reading video frames. Trend Micro says an attacker can exploit the vulnerability by getting users to install an app or by tricking them into visiting a website. In the first scenario, the attacker gets mediaserver to process a specially crafted MKV file via the app, causing the system to slow down until it reboots or until it has no battery left. In this case, the service continues to loop until system resources or the battery are exhausted even if the malicious app is terminated. In the second scenario, the malicious MKV file is embedded into an HTML page and the exploit is triggered when the user starts playing the video file. In a worst case scenario, the attacker can program the malicious app to start at boot, which would cause the device to enter an endless reboot loop, researchers said. u201cThis endless reboot may render Android devices unusable unless the devices are opened in safe mode and the app is removed,u201d Wish Wu, mobile threat response engineer at Trend Micro, said in a blog post. u201cGetting rid of the app is quite problematic. It may be difficult to locate the app once downloaded. Attackers may opt to keep it hidden and silent for a long time and only trigger the attack days or months later. Users may believe it is not installed and attribute the reboots to problems in the Android system.u201d The security firm says it hasnu2019t seen any attacks exploiting this vulnerability. Trend Micro reported the issue on May 19 to the Android security team, which classified it as a u201cmoderate severityu201d vulnerability two days later. Google informed Trend Micro of the availability of a fix on July 31. However, due to Android's fragmented ecosystem and the reliance on device manufacturers and carriers to push security updates, it will take some time until the patch reaches most users. Furthermore, the owners of older devices might never receive the patch. This is the second Android vulnerability related to the mediaserver component identified by researchers at Trend Micro. Last week, the company announced finding a similar flaw, but Google classified it as u201clow severityu201d and it has not been fixed. Far more serious vulnerabilities related to the handling of video files were discovered by researchers at mobile security firm Zimperium. Experts identified a series of flaws in the Stagefright media library that can be exploited for remote code execution. The security bugs are believed to affect as many as 950 million devices. What makes these vulnerabilities dangerous is the fact that they can be easily exploited. For example, an attacker can execute arbitrary code on a device simply by sending the targeted user an MMS message with a specially crafted media file. One of the Stagefright vulnerabilities was reported independently to Google by Trend Micro. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a0f6cefc42d78dc615d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Mozilla Patches 13 Vulnerabilities With Release of Firefox 38", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/mozilla-patches-13-vulnerabilities-release-firefox-38", "Date" : "May 13, 2015", "Article" : "Firefox 38 was made available for download on Tuesday. Mozilla has addressed a total of 13 vulnerabilities in the latest version of its web browser, including five critical security bugs. One of the critical flaws is a buffer overflow triggered while parsing compressed XML content (CVE-2015-2716). The vulnerability, discovered by Ucha Gobejishvili, is caused by an error in how buffer space is created and modified when handling large amounts of XML data. The bug leads to a potentially exploitable crash, Mozilla said. Another critical vulnerability fixed in Firefox 38 is a use-after-free during the processing of text when vertical text is enabled (CVE-2015-2713). The issue, discovered by Scott Bell, also leads to a potentially exploitable crash. Dougall Johnson reported an incorrect asm.js bounds check elimination vulnerability (CVE-2015-2712). u201cSecurity researcher Dougall Johnson reported an out-of-bounds read and write in asm.js during JavaScript validation due to an error in how heap lengths are defined. This results in a potentially exploitable crash and could allow for the reading of random memory which may contain sensitive data,u201d Mozilla said in its advisory. Finland-based bug bounty hunter Atte Kettunen, who has identified numerous bugs in Google Chrome, reported a critical heap-based buffer overflow vulnerability triggered during the rendering of SVG format graphics when combined with specific CSS properties on a page (CVE-2015-2710). Several memory safety bugs in the browser engine, identified by the Mozilla community and developers, have also been rated critical. Firefox 38 patches a total of five high severity vulnerabilities, including a buffer overflow during video playback on Linux systems, a buffer overflow and out-of-bounds read in the libstagefright library while parsing invalid metadata in MP4 video files, a bug in how WebChannel.jsm handles message traffic, and a privilege escalation through Inter-process Communication (IPC) channel messages. The latest version of the web browser also includes a comprehensive fix for a vulnerability initially addressed in Firefox 36. Some of these vulnerabilities also affect Firefox ESR, and the Thunderbird email client. With the release of Firefox 38, Mozilla also announced integration with the Adobe Content Decryption Module (CDM) for playing DRM-wrapped content within the HTML5 video tag. u201cWe donu2019t believe DRM is a desirable market solution, but itu2019s currently the only way to watch a sought-after segment of content,u201d explained Denelle Dixon-Thayer, senior vice president of business and legal affairs at Mozilla Corporation. In an effort to provide a layer of security, Mozilla has decided to develop a security sandbox that sits around the CDM. The company has noted that the CDM can be removed from Firefox, or users can install a version of the web browser that doesnu2019t have the CDM enabled by default. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a1c6cefc42d78dc6181" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Android Vulnerability Allows Attackers to Crash Smartphones", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/android-vulnerability-allows-attackers-crash-smartphones", "Date" : "July 30, 2015", "Article" : "A vulnerability in the Android mobile operating system can be exploited to cause devices to become inoperable, said researchers from Trend Micro. According to experts, the vulnerability affects versions of Android starting with 4.3 Jelly Bean and up to 5.1.1 Lollipop. Roughly half of Android devices are running impacted version of the operating system. The issue is an integer overflow bug in Androidu2019s u201cmediaserveru201d service. The vulnerability is triggered when the service processes a malformed video file using the Matroska container. u201cThe vulnerability is caused by an integer overflow when the mediaserver service parses an MKV file. It reads memory out of buffer or writes data to NULL address when parsing audio data,u201d Trend Micro mobile threat response engineer Wish Wu explained in a blog post. An attacker can leverage the flaw to cause a smartphone to become silent and inoperable. This includes no ringtone and notification sounds, and unresponsive user interface. Wu says an attacker can exploit the denial-of-service (DoS) vulnerability remotely by getting the victim to install a malicious app or visit a specially crafted website. Exploiting the flaw through a malicious app that contains an embedded MKV file allows the attacker to make the smartphone unresponsive for an extended period of time by ensuring that the application is launched whenever the device boots. A proof-of-concept (PoC) application developed by Trend Micro causes the mediaserver service to continuously restart once the exploit is triggered. The attack has also been demonstrated with a web-based PoC that causes the phone to crash when itu2019s accessed through the Chrome web browser. u201cWhatever means is used to lure in users, the likely payload is the same. Ransomware is likely to use this vulnerability as a new u2018threatu2019 for users: in addition to encrypting on the device being encrypted, the device itself would be locked out and unable to be used. This would increase the problems the user faces and make them more likely to pay any ransom,u201d Wu explained. The researcher believes that further analysis of the mediaserver service might reveal more serious vulnerabilities, including flaws that can be exploited for remote code execution. Google has confirmed that the vulnerability exists, but the search giant has yet to release a patch. The company has classified the issue as a low priority flaw. Earlier this week, researchers disclosed the existence of a series of critical Android vulnerabilities. The flaws exist in the Stagefright media playback library and they affect up to 950 million devices. While in both cases the vulnerabilities can be exploited via malicious media files, the Stagefright vulnerabilities are far more serious because they allow remote code execution, and some of them can be exploited simply by sending a malicious MMS message to the victim. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a7c6cefc42d78dc627a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Mozilla Fixes 17 Vulnerabilities in Firefox 36", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/mozilla-fixes-17-vulnerabilities-firefox-36", "Date" : "February 25, 2015", "Article" : "A total of 17 security holes have been addressed by Mozilla with the release of Firefox 36. The latest version of the Web browser also includes support for the HTTP/2 protocol. While the number of fixed vulnerabilities is higher than usual, only four of the flaws have been rated critical. One of the critical issues is a buffer overflow in the libstagefright library (CVE-2015-0829). The bug, reported by a security researcher who uses the online moniker Pantrombka, is caused by invalid MP4 files during video playback. The issue can lead to a potentially exploitable crash, Mozilla said. Another critical vulnerability that leads to a potentially exploitable crash was discovered and reported by Paul Bandha. The researcher identified a use-after-free bug (CVE-2015-0831) when running specific Web content with IndexedDB to create an index. The remaining critical flaws are memory safety bugs (CVE-2015-0835, CVE-2015-0836) discovered by Mozilla developers and members of the Mozilla community. u201cSome of these bugs showed evidence of memory corruption under certain circumstances, and we presume that with enough effort at least some of these could be exploited to run arbitrary code,u201d Mozilla said in an advisory. The high-impact vulnerabilities fixed in Firefox 36 have been described as reading of local files through manipulation of form autocomplete, a buffer overflow during MP3 playback, a buffer overflow during CSS restyling, a double-free issue when using non-default memory allocators with a zero-length XHR, an out-of-bounds read and write while rendering SVG content, and a flaw that made it possible for malicious DLL files to execute with elevated privileges. The advisory describes the medium-impact security holes as a Caja Compiler JavaScript sandbox bypass, crash using DrawTarget in Cairo graphics library, and malicious WebGL content crash when writing strings. Researchers also discovered that an appended period to hostnames can bypass HPKP and HSTS protections, UI Tour whitelisted websites in the background tab can spoof foreground tabs, and that local files or privileged URLs in pages can be opened in new tabs. Firefox 36 introduces support for the recently finalized Hypertext Transfer Protocol 2 (HTTP/2), the successor of HTTP. Mozilla explained in the release notes that HTTP/2 u201cenables a faster, more scalable, and more responsive web.u201d The latest version of the application also brings syncing for pinned tiles, and a locale for the Uzbek language. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3834b46cefc42b0029463b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Zimperium Acquisition Program Publishes Exploits for Patched Android Bugs", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/zimperium-acquisition-program-publishes-exploits-for-patched-android-bugs/125190/", "Date" : "April 25, 2017 , 10:30 am", "Article" : "Exploits for two patched Android privilege escalation vulnerabilities were published today by security company Zimperium. These are the first publicly released submissions from its N-Days Exploit Acquisition Program, which began in February and had among its stated goals to encourage researchers to develop proof-of-concept exploits that would force carriers and handset makers to improve Android patch delivery. The vulnerabilities were patched a year ago and were in the NVIDIA Video Driver and the MSM Thermal Driver; they affect Android 6.0 and earlier devices. u201cThe main reason we are doing this is because most Android phones are not updated and are vulnerable,u201d Zimperium researcher Nicolas Trippar said. u201cWe are pushing the carriers and vendors so they will start patching vulnerabilities that are public.u201d Zimperium published exploit code today and said it plans to publish exploits going forward on a monthly basis. u201cIf an exploit is available, [carriers and vendors] really move more quickly about updates,u201d Trippar said. u201cPublishing exploits is the only way that the vendors really care about vulnerabilities.u201d The two elevation of privilege vulnerabilities are similar in that they would allow an attacker to write to parts of the Android kernel. u201cIn both of the cases, you can exploit the vulnerability to disable SELinux, which is the permission system inside Android and gain root access to the device,u201d Trippar said. u201cSo this vulnerability could be chained with another vulnerability and exploit like a Stagefright. You could have the full chain to fully compromise the device.u201d Kernel driver vulnerabilities have been a frequent issue in the monthly Android Security Bulletins; these two bugs were patched in April and May of last year. Google began its monthly schedule releases after the disclosure of the Stagefright vulnerability during Black Hat 2015. Google shares its monthly updates in advance with its partners, including vendors such as Samsung, and also directly pushes updates to its Nexus devices. Most Android devices, however, are woefully out of date, and are running Android 5.1 or earlier (Lollipop). According to the Android Developers Dashboard, 31 percent of devices are on Android 6.0 (Marshmallow) and fewer than 5 percent are running 7.0 (Nougat). u201cThe main problem is that each vendor using Android has their own fork of the kernel code. Google publishes updates, and until the update is published to other devices, it takes a really long time,u201d Trippar said u201cThere are some devices that wonu2019t have any more updates and some people are still using it. There are some companies that are publishing updates all the time, but thatu2019s not really the normal way.u201d Unlike Apple, which manages one update for one version of the operating system, patching is much less complicated. The Android ecosystem is quite fractured, with each vendor responsible for updating its devices. Zimperium founder Zuk Avraham told Threatpost at the outset of the N-Day program that exploits for iOS 8 and later, and Android 4.0 and later, would be eligible for the program and payouts from a pool of $1.5 million. Exploits from the program will be first delivered to Zimperium partners and members of its Zimperium Handset Alliance, which includes some large mobile manufacturers such as Samsung and BlackBerry. u201cRight now N-days are worth zero,u201d Avraham said at the time. u201cWe are going to help create value for vulnerabilities that sell for zero and make them worth more than that.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38352f6cefc42b002946cb" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches KRACK Vulnerability in Android", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-patches-krack-vulnerability-in-android/128818/", "Date" : "November 8, 2017 , 10:10 am", "Article" : "Google this week finally addressed the KRACK vulnerability in Android, three weeks after the WPA2 protocol flaw was publicly disclosed. The KRACK patches are the most high-profile fixes in the November Android Security Bulletin, which includes three patches levels; the KRACK patches are in the Nov. 6 patch level, Google said. A separate Google Pixel and Nexus security bulletin was also released, but it does not contain patches for KRACK. Apple was the most recent giant tech firm to patch KRACK prior to Google. Its recent iOS 11.1 update patched KRACK in the iPhone 8, 8 Plus and X. Apple said the iPhone 7 and earlier are not impacted. KRACK is short for key-reinstallation attacks and can be exploited by an attacker within range of a victimu2019s Wi-Fi network to read encrypted traffic. The vulnerability surfaces in the four-way handshake carried out when clients join WPA2-protected networks. A pre-shared network password is exchanged during this handshake, authenticating the client and access point. Itu2019s also where a fresh encryption key is negotiated that will be used to secure subsequent traffic. It is at this step where the key reinstallation attack takes place; an attacker on the network is able to intercede and replay cryptographic handshake messages, bypassing a mandate where keys should be used only once. The weakness occurs when messages during the handshake are lost or droppedu2014a fairly common occurrenceu2014and the access point retransmits the third part of the handshake (re-using a nonce), theoretically multiple times. An attacker sniffing the traffic could replay it offline and piece together enough information to steal secrets. Google shared the updates with its Android partners and OEMs last month and said source code patches should be available in the Android Open Source Project repository some time today. In addition to KRACK, Google warned of critical vulnerabilities in its Media framework, a monthly ritual since the Stagefright vulnerabilities. Remote attackers could use crafted media files in order to execute arbitrary code on Android devices through these bugs. Google said that none of the bugs it patched have been publicly attacked. The Nov. 1 patch level addresses seven bugs in the Media framework, five of them rated critical affecting most versions of Android. The Nov. 5 patch level contains patches for a handful of worrisome Qualcomm component vulnerabilities that enable kernel-level access. Researcher Scott Bauer privately disclosed six flaws that were patched this week that could be remotely exploited. Bauer said in a report he published this week that two other remotely exploitable flaws he disclosed remain unpatched. The most critical of fixed bugs is CVE-2017-11013, Bauer told Threatpost. u201cTheyu2019re all kernel bugs. But this one is the one that scares me the most, Bauer said. u201cThe reason why this is the worst one is because it is a bug in the kernel that a remote attacker can hit. This bug also, without getting technical, has the possibility for real hackers to start using.u201d Bauer said the vulnerabilities are in the qcacid Qualcomm/Atheros Wi-Fi- driver. He said heu2019s aware of the driver shipping in at least two Android phones: the Pixel (and Pixel Gen2 and 5x). Bauer said this particular flaw is most dangerous because it is remote and a proximal bug into the kernel. u201cAll that would have to happen is someone would have to trick you into connecting onto a wireless access point. They could name it the same as your home Wi-Fi, with the same MAC address as your home Wi-Fi and your phone would connect automatically,u201d Bauer said. u201cOnce the connection happens, your phone is compromised with no sign to the user.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835656cefc42b0029471e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Memory Corruption Mitigations Doing Their Job", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/memory-corruption-mitigations-doing-their-job/124728/", "Date" : "April 3, 2017 , 1:00 pm", "Article" : "SINT MAARTENu2014Memory corruption mitigations that have been integrated into major desktop and mobile operating systems are driving up the cost of client-side exploit development and making viable vulnerabilities scarcer than they were a decade ago. Mark Dowd, whose career has been intimately linked to vulnerability research and exploit development, said today during his keynote at the Kaspersky Lab Security Analyst Summit that mitigations have put up significant barriers to attackers, forcing them to spend more time finding and chaining bugs to run code on compromised machines. u201cUseful bugs are harder to find,u201d said Dowd, founder of Azimuth Security. u201cBypassing mitigations is not trivial. Now weu2019re talking about exploit chains where you first have to compromise a process and then develop a sandbox escape.u201d Dowd explained that an old, early-2000s Internet Explorer 6 or 7 browser exploit, for example, used to be a three-stage operation that involved triggering a vulnerability, running code and reading data and maintaining persistence. An attacker could have their desired effect within a week, he estimated. But by the time IE 11 for Windows 8 was introduced and included memory protections such as ASLR, DEP, Control Flow Guard and heap mitigations, attackers were forced to retool and add costly additional steps such as the use of of data corruption techniques to force information leaks and the development of sandbox escapes. This requires, he said, additional study of internal states of a program and understanding user-supplied data in memory in order to build a kernel-level attack that bypasses sandbox protections. Dowd said that not only are mitigations proving effective in driving up costs for attackers, but also aggressive patching routines. u201cSandboxes are having the biggest effect on development time,u201d Dowd said. u201cIf youu2019re considering [cost] calculations for attackers, you have to consider the time it takes to discover a vulnerability and the time to develop an exploit. You often have to find multiple bugs and develop and put together an exploit chain.u201d Dowd estimates that the development times for browser exploits are close to two to four weeks. u201cThis is a large burden to exploit development,u201d Dowd said. Dowd confirmed too that memory corruption mitigations have all but wiped out Microsoft server exploits and had a large hand in making it impossible for successful Stagefright worms to surface against the Android platform. Moving forward, expect the trend of rising exploit development costs to continue, and mitigations to eventually focus on limiting later exploit stages and the prevention of code execution. Apple, Dowd said, has led the way with its code-signing requirements in macOS and iOS which allow only for the execution of verified code. Microsoft is said to be following suit with its upcoming Creators update. u201cExploitable memory corruption vulnerabilities in ubiquitous software will be increasingly rare,u201d Dowd said, pointing to the increased use of type-safe languages in software development, improved static analysis and IDE tools, and Google and Microsoft spending significant dollars on fuzzing and triaging of bugs in development. Dowd also expects attackers to, in turn, focus on softer targets such as connected, embedded IoT devices that have none of these ingrained protections. u201cNext-generation memory exploits will likely be data-only attacks,u201d Dowd said. u201cAnd future mitigations will focus on data structure integrity.u201d  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38359a6cefc42b00294763" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Half of Android Devices Unpatched Last Year", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/half-of-android-devices-unpatched-last-year/124511/", "Date" : "March 23, 2017 , 12:11 pm", "Article" : "Google said more thanu00a0half of Android devices havenu2019t received a security update in the past year, and the percentage of potentially harmful apps running on devices installed from all sources rose in 2016. The numbers come from the Android Security 2016 Year In Review (PDF) released Wednesday. While the reports touts security gains made over the last year, it also highlights areas where security is lacking. By Q4 2016, Googleu00a0said half of all Android devices in use at the end of 2016 had not received a platform security update in the previous year. This past year was the first full year of Googleu2019s monthly patches. Google said overall the number of potentially harmful apps (PHA) downloaded from Google Play and including third-party apps stores running on Android devices rose to 0.71 percent in 2016, up from 0.5 percent in 2015 (PDF). u201cStill, thereu2019s more work to do for devices overall, especially those that install apps from multiple sources,u201d wrote co-authors of the report Adrian Ludwig, Googleu2019s Director of Android Security, and Mel Miller, an Android security team member. u201cUsing improved tools and the knowledge we gained in 2016, we think we can reduce the number of devices affected by PHAs in 2017, no matter where people get their apps.u201d  On a positive note, in 2016 Google reported, on average, devices that only installed applications from Google Play had less than 0.05 percent of PHAs installed. In 2015, that number was 0.15 percent. Google said, duringu00a0the past year it managed the security of 1.4 billion Android user devices. In that timeframe, Google touted its work with wireless carriers, system on chip manufacturers and device makers to release security patches at a faster pace. u201cSeveral manufacturers, including Samsung, LG and OnePlus, regularly deliver security updates to flagship devices on the same day as Googleu2019s updates to Nexus and Pixel devices, thereby providing their customers with the most up-to-date security available,u201d according to Google. Still, over the past year, security experts pointed to device patching as a major issue for Google in 2016 and the year ahead. This past August, Googleu2019s patching of the high-profile QuadRooter vulnerability took 96 days for it to go from vulnerability notification by Qualcomm to the release of the final patch for the critical flaws on Sept. 6. Rich Smith, director of research and development for Duo Labs, blames carriers and manufacturers for hurting Googleu2019s ability to speedily deploy patches. u201c(They) are doing a much worse job and acting as a drag factor on the overall Android ecosystem when it comes to timely patching,u201d he said.  By Q4 2016, more thanu00a0half of the top 50 Android devices worldwide had a u201crecentu201d security patch, Google said. Smith points out that u201crecentu201d is a relative term. u201cOur analysis suggests that u2018recentu2019 looks to be about 90 days,u201d he said. Duo Labs analysis of one million enterprise Android devices shows 65 percent of Googleu2019s own Nexus and Pixel hardware receive security patches within a 60-day window of being released. And that 36 percent of what Google classifies as u201ctop 50u201d Android devices receive a security patch within the first 60 days of availability. After three months, 90 percent of Googleu2019s own devices had patches compared to 81 percent of other u201ctop 50u201d Android devices, according to Duo Labs. u201cThat number is pretty impressive when you consider the fact that devices that arenu2019t part of the Nexus or Pixel family are at the mercy of their OEM or carrier as to when (or if) they would receive these updates,u201d Smith said. Mediaserver, Google noted in its report, also received a big update in 2016. It was Androidu2019s mediaserver, coupled with a security hole in Qualcommu2019s Secure Execution Environment, which exposedu00a060 percent of Android devices to attack in 2016 as part of the QuadRooter vulnerability. u201cWe re-architected the mediaserver stack to address Stagefright-type vulnerabilities by adding integer overflow protections and compartmentalizing mediaserveru2019s components into individual sandboxes with minimal privileges. We also increased the degree of randomness in address space layout randomization (ASLR), making some attacks more difficult,u201d Google said. u201cThe overall health of Google Play has increased year over year. The number of installed trojans dropped by 51.5 percent, hostile downloaders dropped by 54.6 percent, backdoors dropped by 30.5 percent, and phishing apps dropped by 73 percent,u201d wrote Ludwig and Miller. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3835b16cefc42b00294777" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "How Google Shrank The Android Attack Surface", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/how-google-shrank-the-android-attack-surface/127086/", "Date" : "July 31, 2017 , 8:00 am", "Article" : "LAS VEGASu2014For Nick Kralevich, head of Android platform security at Google, there is no better barometer for success than finding out the market value for vulnerabilities on the OS he works to protect are among the highest paid for mobile. During a Black Hat session on hardening Android, Kralevich discussed the multi-year journey Google developers have been on to get to where it is today. u201cItu2019s both frightening and exhilarating at the same time to think Android is running on 2 billion devices today,u201d he said. And securing them is a big responsibility that has evolved significantly over the years. For Kralevich, efforts to secure Android are tied to reducing its attack surface. And for the past several years, he said, his team has made significant gains. u201cAttack surface reduction means several different things. How do we make sure an application can only do what it is intended to do? How do we minimize the surface that is exposed? How do we contain processes within Android and follow the principle of least privilege?u201d he said. The Smalley Report For a long time Google approached security differently, focusing on exploit mitigations such as fstack-protector and ASLR, and preventing format string vulnerabilities. Then Stephen Smalley published a report u201cThe Case for Security Enhanced Androidu201d in 2012 that was critical of several components of the Android OS that were vulnerable to nearly a half dozen rooting exploits. For Kralevich, the paper struck a nerve, helping him realize that he needed to shift focus on reducing the Android attack surface versus exploit mitigation. u201cA lot of us looked at Smalleyu2019s report and said there is something here,u201d he said. u201cSo we began focusing on attack surface minimization and containment as a model and seeing what we could do.u201d Today, he said, every Android process is running in a sandbox that has minimum privileges. u201cMy job is to reduce the attack surface to the point even if there are bugs, those bugs donu2019t mean anything,u201d he said. Kralevich calls this strategy architectural separation and architectural decomposition. The journey from several sandboxes to a multiple containment strategy was long and involved a lot of CVEs u2013 with the chief one being those tied to the Stagefright vulnerability. u201cStagefright was a successful failure. Something bad happened, but in the end something better happened,u201d he said. He credits Stagefright for being a catalyst for Googleu2019s Android Security Bulletins and hastening its efforts to update the Android ecosystem on a quicker basis. But, itu2019s what Stagefright motivated Google to do with the Android Media Stack that is a microcosm of larger Android attack surface reduction efforts. u201cIn the old model when the bug happened, it happened in the MediaServer process, so an attacker was able to get all the capabilities associated with the process. In Android Nougat, functionality moved to specific processes. The Media Stack now consisted of seven components from MediaServer, MediaExtractor to MediaDrmServer. A more modern example of architectural separation, Kralevich said, is Project Treble, introduced this year to Android O, Googleu2019s upcoming release of the Android mobile operating system. u201cAt its heart, Project Treble is a defined by strong architectural separation between core Android components that Google creates and vendor customization,u201d Kralevich said. Project Treble takes Android containment a step further by separating the hardware-specific drivers and firmware used by companies such as Samsung or Qualcomm from the Android operating system. The implications will be significant when it comes Googleu2019s ability roll out OS patches without having to wait for things such as chipset compatibility. Kralevich explained that the modular approach to hardware and software would also allow Google to limit aspects of the Android framework from accessing a deviceu2019s kernel. Donu2019t Forget the Kernel That reduction of the attack surface in the user space has shifted focus by bad guys and researchers alike to focus more on the Android kernel. In 2014, he said, kernel bugs represented 4 percent of reported bugs compared with 39 percent today. Google blames an uptick in the number of reported kernel bugs to the success of locking down the Android user space making it harder to find vulnerabilities. He added, the introduction of significantly higher bounties for kernel bugs was also a contributing factor. That spurred Google to apply the surface reduction strategy on the kernel. One of those efforts included looking closer at a system calls to drivers via IOCTLs (input/output control). Fewer IOCTLs equals fewer avenues for bad guys to reach bugs. So, with the introduction of Android 6.0 (Marshmallow), Google added a new tool called an IOCTL Filter giving developers a way to massively reduce the number of unneeded IOCTLs inside components such as the WiFi radio chipset and the GPU. u201cWhen we took a closer look, we found only a fraction of IOCTL calls were actually being used. So out of the hundreds (of IOCTLs) we were able to turn off the vast majority of them with no functionality loss,u201d Kralevich said. In fact, much of the work to reduce the attack surface of the kernel has been stripping down unnecessary functionality. Those efforts to pair back excess functionality will continue with future targets such as getting rid of useless dev files, scaling back proc files and reducing shared data stores. u201cAttack surface management is the key for what we need to do in the security space to be secure. Being able to understand your architecture and being able to understand the different moving parts is really important. We have been investing significant time to make sure the Android attack surface is minimal to decrease the probability there will be relevant bugs in Android,u201d he said. That way, Kralevich said, his team can do the seemingly impossible u2013 fix bugs before they know about them. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3836996cefc42b0029488d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Latest Android Security Bulletin Heavy on Critical Qualcomm Flaws", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/latest-android-security-bulletin-heavy-on-critical-qualcomm-flaws/118479/", "Date" : "June 6, 2016 , 2:00 pm", "Article" : "Google today pushed out its monthly Android patches, addressing what is becoming a monthly custom of a critical Mediaserver vulnerability, in addition to a half-dozen critical flaws in different Qualcomm drivers. The Android Security Bulletin includes patches for eight critical flaws, and while Mediaserver has been a mainstay since Google began releasing patches on a regular monthly cycle, it does not get off lightly despite one critical patch. There are a dozen others rated high severity where remote attacks are more difficult or require user interaction, for example. Qualcomm gear in Android, however, has been a focus lately as well for researchers. Last month, details about a flaw in Qualcommu2019s Secure Execution Environment related to Mediaserver was disclosed; it put 60 percent of Android devices at risk before it was patched in January. The vulnerability impacts versions up to and including Marshmallow, and despite a patch being available for close to six months, itu2019s difficult to tell how many devices have actually been pushed a fix by their carrier or handset maker. This month, a host of elevation of privilege vulnerabilities in Qualcomm drivers were patched that affect Nexus 5, 6 and 7 devices in some cases, Google said. For each of the six vulnerabilities affecting the Qualcomm Video Driver, Qualcomm Sound Driver, Qualcomm GPU Driver and Qualcomm Wi-Fi Driver, an attacker could use a malicious application to exploit the flaw and run code in the context of the kernel. Google warns that in each case, an exploit could brick an Android device, requiring that it be re-flashed. All of todayu2019s flaws were patched on Nexus devices in an over-the-air update, while Google said carriers and manufacturers were sent the updates on May 2. The Android Open Source Project (AOSP) is expected to be updated in the next two days. The critical Mediaserver flaw exposes Android devices to remote code execution; an attacker can send a vulnerable devices a malicious media file that corrupts memory during processing of the file. Mediaserver was at the center of last summeru2019s Stagefright vulnerabilities and is particularly risky because it has system- and kernel-level privileges. The dozen high-severity issues in Mediaserver, meanwhile, are also elevation of privilege flaws that can be exploited by a local malicious app to execute code. An attacker could use this flaw to gain Signature or SignatureOr System privileges, Google said. The remaining critical patch addresses a remote code execution flaw in libwebm, an open media file format that is supported by most of the major browsers for video playback. An attacker can exploit this to run code remotely in the context of the Mediaserver process. Google also patched high-severity elevation of privilege vulnerabilities in Qualcomm Sound Driver, Qualcomm Camera Driver, Qualcomm Video Driver, and Qualcomm Wi-Fi Driver, as well as in the Broadcom Wi-Fi Driver, NVIDIA Camera Driver, MediaTek Power Management Driver, and SD Card Emulation Layer. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3836b86cefc42b002948ad" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Dirty Cow Vulnerability Patched in Android Security Bulletin", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/dirty-cow-vulnerability-patched-in-android-security-bulletin/122266/", "Date" : "December 5, 2016 , 3:32 pm", "Article" : "The Dirty Cow vulnerability lived in Linux for close to a decade, and while it was patched in October in the kernel and in Linux distributions, Android users had to wait for more than a month for their fix. Today, Google included a patch for CVE-2016-5195 in the monthly Android Security Bulletin, the final one for 2016. The Dirty Cow patch is one of 11 critical vulnerabilities, all of which are in the Dec. 5 patch level; a separate Dec. 1 patch level was also released today that included patches for 10 high-severity vulnerabilities. In last monthu2019s bulletin, Google partially addressed Dirty Cow with a supplemental firmware update for Nexus and Pixel handsets, while Samsung was the lone handset maker to release a patch in November. Dirty Cow was patched in October after it was discovered in public exploits. The vulnerability was found in the copy-on-write (COW) feature in Linux and could be used by an attacker with local access to obtain root privileges on a Linux or Android device. The flaw, which was introduced in 2007 in version 2.6.22 of the kernel, allows an attacker to elevate privileges by taking advantage of a race condition and gain write-access to read-only memory. Researcher Phil Oester disclosed the vulnerability and a proof-of-concept exploit. u201cThis flaw allows an attacker with a local system account to modify on-disk binaries, bypassing the standard permission mechanisms that would prevent modification without an appropriate permission set,u201d Oester said. Copy-on-write manages memory resources and allows for more than one process to share a page until a user writes to it, known in programming as marking a page dirty. The vulnerability allows an attacker to exploit the race condition to write to the original page before itu2019s marked dirty. Google also patched a separate kernel memory subsystem bug rated critical. CVE-2016-4794 affects only the new Pixel, Pixel C and Pixel XL devices, and can also allow an attacker to elevate to root privileges. Six other critical bugs were addressed in the NVIDIA GPU and video drivers; the GPU bugs affect only Nexus 9 devices, while one of the video driver flaws also affects the Pixel C. The patches, Google said, are not publicly available and instead are contained in the latest binary drivers for Google devices. Two other critical bugs in the kernel, kernel ION driver were also patched today, all of which allow an attacker to elevate their privileges. Google also patched additional vulnerabilities in Qualcomm components, which have been a sticking point this year in multiple updates and public attacks, most notably Quadrooter, which was patched in September. Quadrooter was disclosed this summer at DEF CON and put hundreds of millions of devices at risk, similar to Stagefright. Researchers at Check Point Software Technologies disclosed the privilege escalation vulnerabilities, which could be used in remote code execution attacks. Multiple subsystems of the Qualcomm chipset were affected and the vulnerabilities could have been exploited to bypass existing mitigations in the Android Linux kernel, allowing an attacker to gain root privileges, Check Point said. Google said that todayu2019s patch addresses flaws that could also lead to code execution. u201cAn elevation of privilege vulnerability in the Qualcomm MSM interface could enable a local malicious application to execute arbitrary code within the context of the kernel,u201d Google said. The Dec. 5 patch level also includes patches for vulnerabilities rated high severity in the kernel, kernel file system, HTC sound code, MediaTek drivers, Qualcomm codecs and drivers, and NVIDIA driversu00a0among others. Most of the flaws are elevation of privilege issues. The Dec. 1 patch level includes a patch for a remote code execution vulnerability in CURL/LIBCURL. u201cThe most severe issue could enable a man-in-the-middle attacker using a forged certificate to execute arbitrary code within the context of a privileged process,u201d Google said. u201cThis issue is rated as High due to the attacker needing a forged certificate.u201d The remaining high-severity bugs in the Dec. 1 patch level affect libziparchive, Mediaserver, Framesequence and Telephony. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3836be6cefc42b002948b0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Joshua Drake on Android Security Post-Stagefright", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/joshua-drake-on-android-security-post-stagefright/119650/", "Date" : "August 4, 2016 , 11:00 am", "Article" : "Joshua Drake of Zimperium Labs talks to Mike Mimoso about the last year post-Stagefright, the effectiveness of Googleu2019s monthly patching cycle, and some of the security enhancements forthcoming in Android N.  Download: Joshua_Drake_on_Post-Stagefright_Android.mp3 Music by Chris Gonsalves  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3836e06cefc42b002948e1" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches Old Flaw Exploited by Rooting Application", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-patches-old-flaw-exploited-by-rooting-application/117161/", "Date" : "April 4, 2016 , 2:00 pm", "Article" : "Google has patched a vulnerability being exploited in the wild to root Nexus 5 Android devices. The public exploitu2014a rooting applicationu2014was privately disclosed to Google on March 15 by Zimperium researchers, and a less than a month after CORE Team researchers reported that CVE-2015-1805, which was patched in 2014 in the Linux kernel, also affects Android devices. The patch is part of todayu2019s monthly Android patch release. The Android Nexus Security Bulletin patches 15 vulnerabilities rated critical by Google in eight Android components, including Mediaserver and libstagefright. The elevation of privilege bug exploited by the rooting application is the lone kernel-level flaw patched this month and it affects Nexus versions 4.4.4, 5.0.2, 5.1.1, 6.0 and 6.0.1. Google warned last month that exploits could lead to permanent device compromise. Rooting applications are particularly dangerous because they give their respective payloads system-level persistence. Zimperium founder and CTO Zuku00a0Avrahamu00a0told Threatpost the vulnerability could be chained with other exploits to gain deeper penetration onto a device. u201cIt allows for consistent elevation of privilege, so anyone with malicious intentions with code execution already on a device and wants higher code execution, could use it to get access to the microphone or camera, or read email, anything like that,u201d Avraham said. u201cBut you do need an initial code execution vulnerability or a presence on the device like an app for example. Then you can use this exploit, which is quite generic, and gain kernel privileges on the device.u201d As is becoming customary, the monthly Nexus security bulletins include fixes for critical Mediaserver and libstagefright vulnerabilities. Since the Stagefright flaws and exploits disclosed last summer during the Black Hat conference, researchers are taking a close look at this core and privileged component of Android. Attackers can exploit these bugs using malicious media files to gain kernel access. u201cItu2019s old code thatu2019s been there for a long time and it didnu2019t go through as intense security testing as other pieces of Android,u201d Zimperiumu2019s Avraham said. u201cFor some researchers, it doesnu2019t take much time to discover Stagefright vulnerabilities. If you have a device thatu2019s a few months old and want to target them with [malicious] MP4 files, itu2019s relatively easy to find a vulnerability there. Every time you have a Stagefright bug and a kernel bug, an attacker can chain both and itu2019s game over.u201d Todayu2019s bulletin patches seven remote code execution bugs in Mediaserver, and one more in libstagefright. The update addresses memory corruption issues in both components. u201cStagefright gives an attacker initial code execution,u201d Avraham said. u201cYou can send a link and trick the victim into opening it, or get man-in-the-middle and inject an iframe that shows the video, and once loadedu2014without interactionu2014the attacker gets initial code execution. To fully hack the device, chain it with a kernel exploit and at that point, you fully control the device.u201d Also patched today, three critical flaws in DHCPCD that open the door to remote code execution in the context of the DHCP client. The DHCP service, Google said, has privileges that third party applications would not. Google also patched a critical flaw in the Media Codec used by Mediaserver, which could be exploited by a crafted file to gain remote code execution. Two Qualcomm components, the Qualcomm Performance Module and Qualcomm RF, were patched against elevation of privilege flaws. Both vulnerabilities could be exploited by malicious apps to execute code within the kernel. The final critical vulnerability was patched in the common kernel and could also be exploited by a malicious app to gain remote code execution and permanent device compromise. Google also today patched 16 vulnerabilities it rates a u201chighu201d severity, and eight others rated u201cmoderate.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837116cefc42b00294920" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Android Qualcomm Vulnerability Impacts 60 Percent of Devices", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/android-qualcomm-vulnerability-impacts-60-percent-of-devices/118191/", "Date" : "May 19, 2016 , 1:08 pm", "Article" : "A flaw in mobile chip maker Qualcommu2019s mobile processor, used in 60 percent of Android devices, allows attackers to take control over a targeted phone or tablet under specific conditions. Researchers at Duo Labs said the vulnerability is tied to Androidu2019s problem-plagued mediaserver, coupled with a security hole in Qualcommu2019s Secure Execution Environment (QSEE). This QSEE vulnerability, discovered by Gal Beniamini last week, is troubling because it impacts both old versions of the Android operating system and new Marshmallow versions. Google has issued a patch for the exploit, however Duo estimates only a small fraction of Android devices have received the fix. Duo researchers are careful to give perspective to its analysis of the QSEE vulnerability (CVE-2015-6639) and stress that while a majority of Android devices are vulnerable to attack via this exploit, security concerns arenu2019t as dire as attacks from the similar and more malicious Stagefright. u201cStagefright could be used to attack anyone remotely, and all youu2019d need is their cell phone number. This vulnerability requires that the attacker distribute the attack code via a malicious app,u201d according to a Duo Security analysis of QSEE. u201cAccording to Googleu2019s own numbers, 1 in 200 phones have a potentially harmful application,u201d said Kyle Lady, research and development engineer at Duo Labs. u201cQSEE exploit leverages the chaining together of two separate exploits to cause a phone to be completely controlled by a third party.u201d He said that in January Google issued a security update that patched the problem for its Nexus phones and OEM handsets. But, Lady said, the age-old problem of wireless carriers dragging their feet when it comes to pushing the security update to devices is leaving 60 percent of Android users exposed to the QSEE vulnerability. Additionally, Duo researchers estimate 27 percent of Android phones are too old to receive monthly updates and are, therefore, permanently vulnerable, according to Duo. Affected hardware includes Qualcomm Snapdragon series chipsets found in Samsungu2019s Galaxy S5 and S6, Motorolau2019s Droid Turbo, and Googleu2019s Nexus line of phones. The exploit takes advantage of the Android OS TrustZone, a feature that juggles Normal World and Secure World OS operations such as the management of cryptographic keys. Qualcommu2019s version of TrustZone goes by name Qualcomm Secure Execution Environment. The vulnerability exists within the QSEE and its ability to interact with the TrustZone kernel u2013 allowing access to the hardware-secure TrustZone file system and also the deviceu2019s system memory. u201cAn attacker running code in the Normal World could take advantage of a vulnerability in mediaserver to exploit an application running in the Secure World. Then the attacker could modify the Normal Worldu2019s Linux kernel, allowing the attacker to compromise the whole operating system to whatever ends theyu2019re trying to achieve,u201d Duo Labs wrote. Lady points to an Android mediaserver vulnerability that allowed an attacker to take advantage of the mediaserveru2019s special permissions to communicate with the QSEE. This attack requires a preexisting exploitation of some vulnerability in mediaserver by a malicious app. u201cWeu2019re assuming that the attacker has one, given how frequently u2018Criticalu2019 or u2018Highu2019 severity bugs in mediaserver are found and patched,u201d Duo Labs said. Beniamini discovered after an attacker established communication with the QSEEu2019s trusted applications, if any of those have a vulnerability, the attacker can then take advantage of that applications level of kernel access and access and modify memory in the Normal World. u201cThis allows an attacker to hijack the devices kernel despite the fact there is no kernel vulnerability,u201d Lady said. Remediation includes the January 2016 security patch, restricting access to third-party Android apps stores, or deploying a mobile device management solution for BYOD devices, according to Duo Labs. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837256cefc42b0029493b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Zimperium Program Buys Exploits for Patched Mobile Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/zimperium-program-buys-exploits-for-patched-mobile-vulnerabilities/123502/", "Date" : "February 1, 2017 , 9:40 am", "Article" : "Mobile security company Zimperium said Tuesday that it will start buying exploits, but in a departure from most other programs, it will not be buying zero-days. The companyu2019s N-Days Exploit Acquisition Program will pay researchers from a pool of $1.5 million for exploits targeting vulnerabilities in Android and iOS that have already been patched. Zuk Avraham, founder of Zimperium, said the program will not only serve to train the companyu2019s core internal Z9 machine learning engine, but also encourage and reward exploit writers to develop proof-of-concept exploits that could nudge carriers and handset makers to improve patch delivery to devices. u201cWe are not an exploit acquisition company; we donu2019t do offensive stuff. We get the same value from our perspective working on N-days,u201d Avraham said. u201cRight now N-days are worth zero. We are going to help create value for vulnerabilities that sell for zero and make them worth more than that.u201d Avraham said exploits for iOS 8 and later, and Android 4.0 and later, will be eligible for the program. Exploits from the program will be first delivered to Zimperium partners and members of its Zimperium Handset Alliance, which includes some large mobile manufacturers such as Samsung and BlackBerry. Within three months, the exploits will be publicly released. Members of Zimperiumu2019s Zlabs research team will evaluate submissions and determine payouts on a case-by-case basis. u201cThese things need to be shared in order for the community to get better and safer,u201d Avraham said, pointing to other exploit acquisition programs that do not share exploits publicly. u201cWe have to change that; thatu2019s what triggered creation of this program.u201d Having a working proof-of-concept exploit, Avraham said, should add urgencyu2014especially on the Android side of the equationu2014for handset makers and carriers to deliver patches and improve the overall security of the ecosystem. Exploits coming out of the program, for example, puts more PoCs in the hands of industry, some of which could be hesitant to deliver timely patches without working public exploits, Avraham said. u201cAndroid got better, and much safer if youu2019re on the latest version, but only .5 percent are on the latest version unfortunately,u201d Avraham said. One glance at the monthly Android Security Bulletins will show you the multitude of vulnerabilities Google regularly assesses and remediates for the mobile operating system. And while Google patches its Nexus phones in over-the-air updates, that process represents only a percentage of the mobile market running devices at current patch levels. The Android ecosystem still lags overall on comprehensive patching, and itu2019s not alone given that while Apple regularly pushes updates to its devices, it still relies on users to download and install them. u201cWe are not there yet, and we can get better,u201d Avraham said, conceding the improvements made since the initiation of the monthly Android patch releases from Google in particular and the number of critical bugs in Mediaserver and Stagefright that have been found and patched. u201cItu2019s gotten better, but itu2019s still very challenging work.u201d Avraham said the program is scheduled to run at least one year, but depending on whether itu2019s successful, it could be extended. u201cWith this program, we thought we would get creative, support the community and do something different for once,u201d Avraham said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837456cefc42b0029495d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Patched Android Libutils Vulnerability Harkens Back to Stagefright", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/patched-android-libutils-vulnerability-harkens-back-to-stagefright/120481/", "Date" : "September 9, 2016 , 2:06 pm", "Article" : "This weeku2019s Android Security Bulletin patched a calamity of vulnerabilities that threatened almost every device in circulation and illustrated the fragility of the Android ecosystem. The bulletin addressed more than 50 vulnerabilities, including nine rated critical by Google because of the possibility of remote code execution. Off the top, Google fixed the two remaining unpatched Quadrooter vulnerabilities in Qualcomm chips, as well as a critical bug in the jhead library that could exploited by a single specially crafted jpeg file. Googleu2019s internal research team, Project Zero, followed suit and on Wednesday and disclosed details of a critical flaw in Libutils that was patched this week. The bug harkens back to the second set of Stagefright bugs disclosed last October, and it too can impact most Android devices in use today, though itu2019s admittedly difficult to exploit. Like the Stagefright bugs and the Mediaserver component in Android, any application that calls Libutils is at risk. u201cThis is similar to the Stagefright 2.0 vulnerability where itu2019s in a core library and there are a lot of different attack vectors,u201d said Joshua Drake, vice president of platform research and exploitation at Zimperium Labs. u201cThis one goes through libstagefright. Itu2019s not a Stagefright bug, but an attack vector is through libstagefright.u201d Google researcher Mark Brand published a lengthy technical description of the flaw and a proof-of-concept exploit centered on Mediaserver. Other applications likely in the line of fire include system_server, drmserver, keystore and surfaceflinger on Android. u201cBasically, any application that uses the library is vulnerable. It is unknown just how many applications and services use this library,u201d said Duo Labs director of security research Steve Manzuik. u201cBut in the proof of concept, Mediaserver is used to demonstrate the bug which of course was also the target of Stagefright exploits. It appears that exploitation (against unpatched devices of course) is moderately hard, on modern Android versions you have to bypass ASLR.u201d Brandu2019s report says the vulnerable code in Libutils lies in the conversion between UTF-16 and UTF-8. UTF-16 is the 16-bit Unicode transformation format that encodes all possible Unicode characters. u201cItu2019s an extremely serious bug, since the vulnerable code path is accessible from many different attack vectors, and it can be leveraged both for remote code execution and for local privilege elevation into the highly privileged system_server SE Linux domain,u201d Brand said. Brand said he discovered a hiccup in Libutils and UTF-16 that allows him to control the size of a buffer allocation and overflow. Mediaserver, meanwhile, he said, was the perfect attack vector for a remote exploit, where Unicode conversions are handled in the processing of ID3 tags. ID3 tags are used in MP3s, for example, to describe the contents of an audio files such as song titles, the artistu2019s name and other metadata. u201cUsing the Stagefright library, you can reach this bug through ID3 parsing,u201d Drake said. u201cStagefright uses Unicode, which has the bug in it.u201d Brand said previous work done in understanding and exploiting Stagefright helped him in producing a proof-of-concept that would create a crash. Bypassing ASLR and other mitigationsu2014in particular in Android-Nu2014were a bigger challenge, he said. u201cA lot of general hardening work has gone into N, and the results are impressive. Thatu2019s not to say that exploiting this bug was impossible on N u2013 but a full chain would be significantly more complex,u201d Brand said. While the initial Stagefright research spurred researchers to dig deeply into Mediaserveru2014for months, the Android Security Bulletin has included critical remote code execution flaws in Mediaseveru2014Drake thinks Libutilsu2019 smaller code base will preclude another rush of bug reports. u201cI think thereu2019s a lot of code in Android that was not getting a lot of eyes on it that is now getting more, and as that continues to happen and the Android Rewards Program grows, youu2019re going to see critical issues being reported for the foreseeable future,u201d Drake said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837466cefc42b0029495f" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Nexus Android Devices Vulnerable to Rooting Application, Permanent Compromise", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/nexus-android-devices-vulnerable-to-rooting-application-permanent-compromise/116942/", "Date" : "March 23, 2016 , 7:00 am", "Article" : "A rooting application has been found in the wild targeting Nexus mobile devices using a local privilege escalation vulnerability patched two years ago in the Linux kernel that remains unpatched in Android. Researchers at Zimperium, the same company that discovered last summeru2019s Stagefright flaws affecting Android, privately disclosed to Google last Tuesday they found an application that had been used to root a Nexus 5 device. This news came a little less than a month after researchers at CORE Team reported to Google that CVE-2015-1805, which was addressed in the Linux kernel in 2014,u00a0also affected Android devices. The discovery of the rooting applicationu2014Google said the exploit was not maliciousu2014prompted Google to push out emergency patches to its partners last Wednesday, and updates for Nexus devices. Partner patches are subject to carriers and handset manufacturers pushing the fixes to customer devices. Google said in an advisory published last Friday that all Android devices on kernel versions 3.4, 3.10 and 3.14, including all Nexus devices are vulnerable. Android devices using Linux kernel version 3.18 or higher are not vulnerable. u201cThis issue is rated as au00a0critical severity issueu00a0due to the possibility of a local privilege escalation and arbitrary code execution leading to local permanent device compromise,u201d Google said. Rooting applications are particularly dangerous, not only because they are spread usually via Trojanized applications, but because they give their respective payloads system-level persistence. Zimperium founder and CTO Zuku00a0Avrahamu00a0called the vulnerability being exploited by this particular rooting app u201cquite generic,u201d and saidu00a0that it could be chained with other exploits to gain deeper penetration onto a device. u201cIt allows for consistent elevation of privilege, so anyone with malicious intentions with code execution already on a device and wants higher code execution, could use it to get access to the microphone or camera, or read email, anything like that,u201d Avraham said. u201cBut you do need an initial code execution vulnerability or a presence on the device like an app for example. Then you can use this exploit, which is quite generic, and gain kernel privileges on the device.u201d Avraham said this flaw was able to generate a payload on a device with a March 1, 2016 patch level, the most up to date patch level. He said the rooting app was spreading on an outside Android market away from Googleu2019s Google Play marketplace. Google said Google Play already blocks rooting applications by default, and that this particular rooting application if downloaded and manually installed from outside Google Play will also be blocked by Googleu2019s Verify Apps tool. Verify Apps, the former Bouncer, scans apps in Google Play for harmful behaviors and warns users not to install them if theyu2019re deemed dangerous. u201cVerify Apps has been updated to block the installation of applications that we have learned are attempting to exploit this vulnerability both within and outside of Google Play,u201d Google said in its advisory. Since rooting applications are banned from Google Play, an attacker would have to somehow convince a victim to manually install the app. Google said users can check the patch levels of their phone to determine whether they are vulnerable to these attacks; devices with a security patch level of March 18, 2016 or April 2, 2016 are not vulnerable, Google said. This news comes days after the disclosure of new exploits targeting vulnerabilities in libstagefright called Metaphor, which uses malicious video files in two stages, to exploit Nexus 5, LG G3, HTC One and Samsung Galaxy S5 handsets. The first video checks for the presence of the particular Stagefright flaw, and the second exploits the bug if itu2019s present on the device. The attack gives attackers remote control over the Android device. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837506cefc42b00294974" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Shares Android Nougat, Safe Browsing Security Enhancements", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-shares-android-nougat-safe-browsing-security-enhancements/120423/", "Date" : "September 8, 2016 , 6:00 am", "Article" : "Google this week shared with developers security enhancements it has added to the new Nougat version of Android and additional security features for webmasters via Safe Browsing to helpu00a0pinpoint harmful content on websites. Under the banner of its nine-year-long Safe Browsing initiative, Google introduced new features that protect against threats such as deceptive sites and unwanted software that may reside on a website. Access to the tools is via Googleu2019s Search Console and within the Security Issues report feature. Google announced the update Tuesday and said the enhancements bolster the Security Issues reporting mechanism. Added to the reporting system are new security parameters to monitor things such as malware, deceptive pages, harmful downloads and u201cuncommonu201d downloads. The goal, said Kelly Hope Harrington, with Google Safe Browsing Team, is to give webmasters context and more details about threats on their system and make browsing websites safer for users. The new features offer webmasters tailored recommendations for each type issue that crops up. In the example provided on the blog announcing the feature enhancements, Google showed a console where malware, harmful downloads and deceptive pages were red-flagged.  In one example the Security Issues console showed the warning to a webmaster, u201cGoogle has detected harmful content on some of your siteu2019s pages.u201d The report allowed a webmaster to download samples and detailed each incident. u201cThese pages directed users to a site that serves malware. Unfortunately, the malicious code within the page could not be isolated,u201d read a description under the malware banner. Android Security Roundup Post-QuadRooter, Google on Tuesday posted a roundup of security enhancementsu00a0it brought to Android 7.0, or Nougat, released Aug. 22. Over the past several months, Google has dealt with a number of high-profile security vulnerabilities. On Aug. 8 four critical vulnerabilities were found in Qualcomm chips used in 900 million Android devices. The flaws, called Quadrooter, could give hackers complete system control and impacted popular handsets from leading OEM device makers. On Tuesday, Google patched a potentially massive Android bug that could allow attackers to compromise u2013 or brick u2013 Android devices dating back to version 4.2. In her blog posted Tuesday, Xiaowen Xin, member of the Android Security Team, recapped the work that went into snuffing out nagging security issues tied to problematic Android components such as MediaServer in Android 7.0. Xin wrote: One of those Nougat security enhancements included a new Direct Boot and Encryption feature. The Direct Boot feature allows an Android 7 user with an encrypted phone to access key smartphone features such as the phone app and alarm clock without having to unlock their phone. With Nougat, Google also has moved to file-based encryption. u201cFile-based encryption better isolates and protects individual users and profiles on a device by encrypting data at a finer granularity,u201d Xin wrote. Google also claims to have hardened and re-architected its problem-plagued Mediaserver component. The Mediaserver component was tied to the infamous Stagefright attacks last year. With Nougat, Mediaserver will haveu00a0fewer permissions and less access to the kernel, limiting the damage that can be done on an Android 7.0 device. u201cWeu2019ve modularized the media stack to put different components into individual sandboxes and tightened the privileges of each sandbox to have the minimum privileges required to perform its job,u201d Xin wrote. He said that this containment approach limits significantly the exposed kernel attack surface. At least a dozen more Android OS security additions to Nougat were highlighted by Xin, including: kernel hardening, a new v2 APK signature scheme, SELinux and a Verified Boot feature that prevents compromised devices from booting. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837586cefc42b00294983" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Shuts Down Potentially Massive Android Bug", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-shuts-down-potentially-massive-android-bug/120393/", "Date" : "September 7, 2016 , 9:00 am", "Article" : "The Android ecosystem may have dodged another Stagefright-type of vulnerability. Googleu2019s monthly Android Security Bulletin released on Tuesday not only patched the remaining Quadrooter vulnerabilities, but also fixed another wide-ranging flaw that could allow an attacker to easily compromiseu2014or at least bricku2014any Android device dating back to version 4.2. The key to staving off another Stagefright is that yesterdayu2019s patch features a complete overhaul of the offending jhead library, mitigating the possibility of recurring critical bugs, which, for example, continue to plague Mediaserver on an almost-monthly basis. Tim Strazzere, director of mobile research at SentinelOne, found the vulnerability (CVE-2016-3862) and that that it would require just a specially crafted jpeg file in order to exploit the issue. Strazzere, admittedly not a proficient exploit writer, said he was able to cause his brand new Nexus 6P device to crash and reboot, and added that the bug could also likely be used by an advanced attacker to gain remote code execution on an Android device. This is especially true on older versions of Android where there are fewer exploit mitigations built into the operating system. u201cThis bug I found specifically is in a library that tries to read Exif data out of jpegs,u201d Strazzere said. u201cAny app using that library is affected by this.u201d Exif is a standard that defines formats for metadata in images recorded by digital cameras. Strazzere tested his proof of concept exploit over Gmail and Gchat. He said no user interaction is required to trigger the bug, just that the application calling jhead parses image data from jpeg files. He said this could extend to a multitude of web-based apps including social media apps where a malicious jpeg file loaded as a profile avatar, for example, could, at a minimum, crash Android devices. u201cI tested it with Gchat and Gmail, and if I send you a file, because the phone syncs and gets the email, that triggers the bug,u201d Strazzere said. u201cYou donu2019t have to click on the image or touch the attachment. Just open email, and that would trigger the bug. u201cTo an advanced attacker, this was relatively easy to find and in their wheelhouse to exploit,u201d Strazzere said. u201cYou would have access to anything that app had access to, or leverage another exploit to get system privileges or root.u201d The jhead library is used to obtain and use data in the Exif header in jpeg images, such as timestamp information, camera data and thumbnails. In Android, Mediaserver is one component that talks to the jhead library, and Google rated it yesterday a critical vulnerability because of the potential for remote code execution. Google addressed the issue, Strazzere said, by removing support for the jhead library as itu2019s currently written. u201cGoogle did a great job with its response and the way itu2019s fixing this by removing all the C code. The library is now gone, and theyu2019re rewriting it in Java,u201d Strazzere said, adding that there were additional bugs and vulnerabilities in jhead that would have bubbled to the surface. u201cItu2019s unlikely that new bugs will come out of what was fixed because theyu2019ve replaced it with a safer language. They took out all of the old functionality they were using and rewrote all of that in Java code. u201cI think weu2019re still going to see some bugs, but they will not be critical severity. This was definitely the correct way to fix this.u201d Googleu2019s Android Rewards program awarded Strazzere a $4,000 bounty, which Google doubled because Strazzere and SentinelOne donated the reward to Girls Garage in the Bay Area, a skills-building program for girls aged 9-13. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38375e6cefc42b0029498e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Stagefright Variant u2018Metaphoru2019 Puts Millions Of Samsung, LG and HTC Phones At Risk", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stagefright-variant-metaphor-puts-millions-of-samsung-lg-and-htc-phones-at-risk/116870/", "Date" : "March 17, 2016 , 6:41 pm", "Article" : "Millions of Android users are at risk of a new Metaphor exploit that can take over Samsung, LG and HTC phones in under 20 seconds. The hack gives attackers access to the targeted phones including the ability to inject malware and take control over key smartphone functions. Discovered by Israeli-based security firm NorthBit, the vulnerability is yet another flaw tied to the maligned Stagefright vulnerability in Android. Affected phones are Nexus 5, LG G3, HTC One and Samsung Galaxy S5 handsets. NorthBit also claims phones running Android 2.2, 4.0, 5.0 and 5.1 are also at risk to Metaphor. Metaphor works by sending a message to the victim containing a link to a website hosting a video. Victims attempting to load the video experience a crashing of the video player, according to NorthBit researchers. As the video player crashes and restarts, data regarding the smartphoneu2019s hardware and software are transmitted to an attacker who can check for the presence of the vulnerability. Next, a new video is sent to the phone along with malware that is exploited within the phoneu2019s mobile browser that gives attackers control over the phone. NorthBit created the vulnerability as a proof of concept and said, in a research report documenting the exploit (PDF), that its research was built off Googleu2019s own research on Stagefright. Others in the security community say theu00a0flaw highlights fundamental security issues around patching that spans the entire software spectrum. Chris Eng, VP of research at Veracode, said those issues are impacting the Android community particularly hard. u201cPatching application vulnerabilities is especially challenging for the Android community with the number of different manufactures and carriers charged with the responsibility of issuing patches to devices,u201d said Eng in an email to Threatpost. u201cAs with Stagefright, we anticipate that Google will be quick to issue a patch to resolve this problem. However, we hope that we donu2019t see a replay of Stagefright 2.0 where many of the patches hadnu2019t been rolled out to end-users.u201d Metaphor is the latest exploit to take advantage of flaw (CVE-2015-3864) in the Android Mediaserver library component. Stagefright was first uncovered by Joshua Drake last July. Google has patched its Mediaserver more than two dozen times since the Stagefright vulnerability was discovered. Last week, Google issued two critical patches addressing Stagefright vulnerabilities. NorthBit says it discovered a way to u201cbypassu201d the Android address space layout randomisation (ASLR) in the Mediaserver component. Researchers wrote: u201cBreaking ASLR requires some information about the device, as different devices use slightly different configurations which may change some offsets or predictable addresses locations. Using the same vulnerability, it is possible to gain arbitrary pointer read to leak back to the web browser and gather information in order to break the ASLRu201d. NorthBit said it was then able to execute JavaScript Metadata encoded inside the media file sent to the targeted phone using u201c<video>u201d tag properties width, height and duration. Next, the Mediaserver parses and sends metadata from within the media file back to the web browser where attackers can then take control over the phone, according to NorthBit. NorthBit estimates that 23 percent of Android devices run OS versions 5.0 and 5.1, leaving 235 million devices vulnerable to this hack. Google and affected OEM phone makers have not made any public statements regarding the vulnerability. u201cGoogle shares some of the same patch management challenges that have haunted Microsoft in the past,u201d said Will Stofega, mobile analyst with IDC. He said OEM software fragmentation coupled with the fact carriers are notorious foot draggers in issuing and deploying software updates makes it extremely difficult to patch these types of holes fast. u201cThis is one more serious Android vulnerability that will hopefully push Google and wireless carriers to more effectively work together on patch management.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38375f6cefc42b00294990" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches Quadrooter Vulnerabilities in Android", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-patches-quadrooter-vulnerabilities-in-android/120374/", "Date" : "September 6, 2016 , 2:00 pm", "Article" : "The Quadrooter vulnerabilities made a lot of people take notice because the scale of affected Android devices (more than 900,000) put it on a level with Stagefright and other bugs that impact a large majority of the Android ecosystem. Some details on the four vulnerabilities were publicly disclosed at DEF CON in August by researchers at Check Point Software Technologies, who warned that popular handsets made by Samsung, Motorola and others were affected, and that the vulnerabilities put those devices at risk to complete compromise. Two of the four vulnerabilities were patched in July and August respectively, and today, Google patched the two remaining vulnerabilities in its monthly Android Security Bulletin. Todayu2019s patches were pushed out today to Nexus devices in an over-the-air update, while partners were given the updates Aug. 5. The Android Open Source Project is expected to receive the patches within 48 hours. The vulnerabilities enable privilege escalation and open the door to remote attacks. Multiple subsystems of the Qualcomm chipset are affected and the vulnerabilities can be exploited to bypass existing mitigations in the Android Linux kernel, allowing an attacker to gain root privileges, Check Point said. The easiest way to compromise Android devices vulnerable to Quadrooter would be to trick the victim into downloading a malicious app. The flaws are in Qualcomm drivers that control communication between different components in the chip. Google patched today CVE-2016-5340 and CVE-2016-2059. CVE-2016-5340 is a bug in Androidu2019s memory allocation subsystem called ashmem, while CVE-2016-2059 is in the Linux inter-process communication router module. Both flaws allow for root access and successful exploits would require for a device to be re-flashed, Google said. The previously patched bugs, CVE-2016-2503 (July) and CVE-2016-2504 (August), addressed use-after-free flaws tied to race conditions in the kernel graphics support layer, a Qualcomm GPU component. Google today published three different patch levels: Sept. 1, 5 and 6. Sept. 1 includes patches for two critical flaws, one in LibUtils and another in Mediaserver, both of which are remote code execution bugs, as is another rated high severity in MediaMuxer. LibUtil and Mediaserver bugs have been patched before in Android; Mediaserver bugs were at the heart of last summeru2019s Stagefright vulnerabilities. All of these flaws, including the MediaMuxer issue, can be exploited via specially crafted media files. They affect all Nexus devices. The Sept. 5 patch level addresses five critical vulnerabilities, two in the kernel security subsystem, one in the kernel networking subsystem, one in the kernel netfilter subsystem and one in the kernel USB driver. All five are privilege escalation vulnerabilities and all five can give a hacker the means to execute arbitrary code at the kernel level. The Sept. 6 patch level, meanwhile, includes just the two Quadrooter fixes. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38377a6cefc42b002949be" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "FCC, FTC Investigate Mobile Security Update Practices", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/fcc-ftc-investigate-mobile-security-update-practices/117972/", "Date" : "May 10, 2016 , 12:05 pm", "Article" : "The glowing lack of public, real-world Stagefright exploits didnu2019t stop the U.S. government from using last summeru2019s blockbuster Android vulnerability as an illustration of the dangers facing mobile device users. Under the context of Stagefright exposing up to 1 billion devices to attack, the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Communications Commission yesterday said they are collaborating on an investigation into the security update practices of the leading carriers. The two agencies sent letters to leading device makers and carriers, includingu00a0AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile, Sprint, US Cellular, and Tracfone, as well as Apple, Google, Samsung, BlackBerry, HTC America, and Microsoft.u00a0The letters give the respective vendors 45 days to report on how they communicate information about vulnerabilities, develop and test security updates and deploy them to devices. Stagefright emerged last summer as threat to most Android devices in circulation going back many versions of the operating system. Attackers could leverage the flaw to gain remote code execution by merely sending a malicious media file to a vulnerable device. The reaction to this bug was immediate by Google, in particular, which less than a week after the patching and public disclosure of Stagefright, announced it would begin monthly over-the-air security updates for Nexus devices and make those same patches available in advance for carriers and OEMs. While fixes are available, the reality is that many mobile devicesu2014in particular those out of current patch levelsu2014donu2019t ever get fixed. This isnu2019t new either; as far back as 2012 and 2013, security experts and the FTC have warned about the gaps in security coverage for Android devices in particular. In 2013, a settlement between HTC America and the FTC was announced after HTC was charged with failing to provide regular security updates. Under the terms of the settlement, HTC was forced to develop and release timely patches, establish a security program that addressed these risks and submit to security assessments for 20 years. Yesterdayu2019s letter to the carriers reinforced these concerns. u201cConsumers may be left unprotected, for long periods of time or even indefinitely, by any delays in patching vulnerabilities once they are discovered. Therefore, we appreciate efforts made by operating system providers, original equipment manufacturers, and mobile service providers to respond quickly to address vulnerabilities as they arise,u201d said Jon Wilkins, chief of the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau at the FCC. u201cWe are concerned, however, that there are significant delays in delivering patches to actual devicesu2014and that older devices may never be patched.u201d For its part, the FCC will focus on service providers and their role in moving patches through the mobile ecosystem, while the FTC will concentrate on operating system makes and equipment manufacturers. u201cWe hope that the efforts of our two agencies will lead to a greater understanding of what is being done today to address mobile device vulnerabilitiesu2014and what can be done to improve mobile device consumer safety and security in the future,u201d Wilkins said. The reports required of each of the carriers and manufacturers are extensive. The respective authors must be an officer of the company and must answer 20 questions in addition to information about update processes. The questions delve into how updates are marshaled out to partners and consumers, and whether resources exist for consumers in particular to determine patch levels and severity of issues. There are also a handful of Stagefright-specific questions pertaining to how carriers and OEMs responded to the flaw and how many devices wereu2014and remainu2014vulnerable. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837ad6cefc42b00294a11" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Fixes Critical Android Mediaserver Bugs, Again", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-fixes-critical-android-mediaserver-bugs-again/116614/", "Date" : "March 7, 2016 , 2:00 pm", "Article" : "Google today patched two critical holes in its problematic Android Mediaserver component which would allow an attacker to use email, web browsing, and MMS processing of media files to remotely execute code. With this latest vulnerability, Google has patched its Mediaserver more thanu00a0two dozen times since the Stagefright vulnerability was discovered in August. The patch is part of Googleu2019s monthly over-the-air security update for Android Nexus devices. In total, Google identified 16 vulnerabilities as part of this monthu2019s Android Nexus Security Bulletin, of which six were rated as critical, eight as high and two as moderate. Google said a Nexus patch would be available within the next 48 hours and available at the Android Open Source Project repository. It says wireless carriers and device makers were made aware of the upcoming security bulletin on Feb. 1. According to Google, the critical flaws could enable remote code execution on an affected device via email, web browsing, and MMS when processing media files. u201cDuring media file and data processing of a specially crafted file, vulnerabilities in Mediaserver could allow an attacker to cause memory corruption and remote code execution as the Mediaserver process,u201d wrote Google in its bulletin. Along with the Mediaserver vulnerabilities (CVE-2016-0815 and CVE-2016-0816), Google identified a third Libvpx critical vulnerability (CVE-2016-1621) thatu2019s also susceptible to remote code execution. u201cOn one hand, this type of functionality (Mediaserver) is known to have vulnerabilities. But knowing that, Google could do a much better job isolating this type of risky attack surface as well as making sure that the Mediaserver can be updated in an expedient manner,u201d said Jon Oberheide, co-founder and CTO, Duo Security. u201cWireless carriers are notoriously slow when it comes to these type of out-of-band patches,u201d he said. Google said Nexus device owners need to update Nexus firmware Builds LMY49H and later, and Android Marshmallow. Alternatively, Android users can check the firmware version on their devices to see if the updates have been applied along with verifying the date the latest Android security patch was installed. As part of Googleu2019s remediation efforts, it said the Android Security team is actively monitoring for abuse with Verify Apps and SafetyNet which both warn users of potentially harmful applications about to be installed. Google said it was unaware of any attempts to exploit the listed vulnerabilities. Google also said it was releasing patches critical privilege elevation vulnerability in the Android kernel. Vulnerabilities identified are a Conscrypt (CVE-2016-0818) and weaknesses found inside a Qualcomm performance component (CVE-2016-0819) and MediaTeku2019s Wi-Fi driver (CVE-2016-0820) and in deviceu2019s keyring component (CVE-2016-0728). " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837b36cefc42b00294a1b" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches 29 Critical Android Vulnerabilities Including Holes in Mediaserver, Qualcomm", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-patches-29-critical-android-vulnerabilities-including-holes-in-mediaserver-qualcomm/122852/", "Date" : "January 4, 2017 , 1:33 pm", "Article" : "Google has patched ten critical vulnerabilities tied to problem-plagued Android components like Mediaserver, NVIDIAu2019s GPU driver, and Qualcommu2019s driver. The most serious bug, according to Googleu2019s January Android Security Bulletin, is the Mediaserver vulnerability. u201cThe most severe of these issues is a critical security vulnerability (CVE-2017-0381) that could enable remote code execution on an affected device through multiple methods such as email, web browsing, and MMS when processing media files,u201d according to the bulletin. The Android Mediaserver component has been patched nearly three dozen times since the Stagefright vulnerability was discovered in August of 2015. Along with the Mediaserver RCE vulnerability, Google identified several other flaws within the Mediaserver component such as (CVE-2017-0390) a denial of service vulnerability (CVE-2017-0387) and an elevation of privilege vulnerability u2013 both classified as high risk. The patches are part of Googleu2019s monthly over-the-air security update for Android Nexus devices. Google said the first wave of patches for itsu00a0Nexus handsets were available on January 1. Supported Google devices will receive a single over-the-air update on January 5, according to Google. Samsung and LG have also released January patches for their Android devices and have committed to sending Google and their own over-the-air patches to affected devices as soon as possible. u201cWhile we are doing our best to deliver the security patches as soon as possible to all applicable models, delivery time of security patches may vary depending on the regions and models,u201d Samsungu2019s January security bulletinu00a0reads. u201cWe have had no reports of active customer exploitation or abuse of these newly reported issues,u201d according to Google. In all, just under 100 CVEs were fixed as part of Googleu2019s January bulletin. Of those CVEs, 29 were rated critical, 41 were rated high and 26 were considered moderate risk vulnerabilities. Among the other critical vulnerabilities patched by Google is an elevation of privilege vulnerability (CVE-2016-8424) identified in NVIDIAu2019s GPU driver as well as in Qualcommu2019s bootloader (CVE-2016-8422). Additional critical elevation of privileges vulnerabilities were identified within several Qualcomm components such as cameras (CVE-2016-8412) used in Android Snapdragon phones made by LG and Samsung. Like Mediaserver, Qualcommu2019s components have also been aggressively patched by Google with the most notable flaw, QuadRooter, having beenu00a0identified in August 2016. Additional security issues were identified and patched in lesser-known Android components such as C-ares (CVE-2016-5180), Framesequence (CVE-2017-0382) and libnl (CVE-2017-0386). u201cAn elevation of privilege vulnerability in the libnl library could enable a local malicious application to execute arbitrary code within the context of a privileged process. This issue is rated as high because it could be used to gain local access to elevated capabilities, which are not normally accessible to a third-party application,u201d Google wrote. Google thankedu00a0nearly 40 individuals and teams for finding and reporting vulnerabilities in the January Android Security Bulletin. Trend Micro researcher Peter Pi and Trend Microu2019s Mobile Threat Research Team are credited with finding what Google identified as the most serious Mediaserver vulnerability, along with seven additional critical vulnerabilities. Researchers at C0RE Team are credited for identifying a critical bug (CVE-2016-8435) tied to an elevation of privilege vulnerability in NVIDIA GPU driver. Vendors such as LG and Samsung have also released updates to their Android devices. Last week LG notified its users of eight patches tied to its G3, G4, G4 Stylus, G5, V10, V20, CK, and G Stylo Android devices. Samsung notified users of 28 Samsung device-specific vulnerabilities. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837c46cefc42b00294a38" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Firefox 46 Patches Critical Memory Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/firefox-46-patches-critical-memory-vulnerabilities/117698/", "Date" : "April 27, 2016 , 12:49 pm", "Article" : "Mozilla yesterday updated Firefox and patched 10 vulnerabilities, one which was rated critical. Firefox 46 also included patches for four vulnerabilities that Mozilla rated as high severity. Critical bugs enabled remote code execution without user interaction, while bugs rated high can be exploited to steal browser data or inject code into websites via the browser. The critical vulnerability was found internally and included four memory-related flaws in the browser engine used by Firefox and other Mozilla software. u201cSome of these bugs showed evidence of memory corruption under certain circumstances, and we presume that with enough effort at least some of these could be exploited to run arbitrary code,u201d Mozilla said in its advisory. All four bugsu2014CVE-2016-2807, CVE-2016-2806, CVE-2016-2805, and CVE-2016-2804u2014cause the browser to crash; CVE-2016-2805 affects only Firefox ESR 38.8. As for the high-severity vulnerabilities, one publicly disclosed by researchers at Newcastle University in the U.K. affects only mobile versions of Firefox for Android. The researchers found that they could use JavaScript with orientation data and motion sensors of the mobile browser to disclose user actions on the device. u201cThis allows an attacker to infer touch actions on the device through these sensors when orientation events are triggered in the browser, compromising user privacy and including potentially revealing entered PIN code data along with other user activities,u201d Mozilla said in its advisory. Mozilla also patched a buffer overflow in libstagefright because of the way it handles CENC offsets and sizes table, and a use-after-free and buffer overflow flaws in Firefoxu2019s Service Workers. The remaining high-severity bug was disclosed privately by the information security arm of the U.K. intelligence agency GCHQ. The flaw is that the .watch() JavaScript method could overflow the underlying HashMap and allow an attacker to write to an invalid entry. u201cUnder the right conditions this write could lead to arbitrary code execution,u201d Mozilla said in its advisory. u201cThe overflow takes considerable time and a malicious page would require a user to keep it open for the duration of the attack.u201d Mozilla also patched a handful of flaws it rated as moderate severity because they work only in non-default configurations, or require extra actions on the useru2019s part to exploit. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837ce6cefc42b00294a49" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Rowhammer Vulnerability Comes to Android", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/rowhammer-vulnerability-comes-to-android/121480/", "Date" : "October 24, 2016 , 12:28 pm", "Article" : "Researchers have published details of a new method for exploiting a problem with Android devices tied to a hardware flaw within DRAM memory modules that can allow attackers to get root-level access to target machines. The vulnerability, dubbed Drammer, could give an attacker root access to millions of Android handsets includingu00a0Nexus, Samsung, LG and Motorola. The attack method employs an existing PC-based hack known as Rowhammer, a technique that targetsu00a0rows of cells of memory in DRAM devices to induce cells to flip from one state to another. u201cOur work is the first to show that Rowhammer is possible on mobile, ARM-based hardware,u201d said researchers in the VUSec Lab at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam in a report released Sunday. u201cDrammer is the first Android root exploit that relies on no software vulnerability and is an instance of the Flip Feng Shui exploitation technique,u201d researchers wrote. A Flip Feng Shui exploitation technique carefully selects the sizes of the portion of memory where dynamically allocated memory resides (heap). Next, the Rowhammer attack targetsu00a0that portion of memory which can u201cflipu201d or change the state of adjacent memory bits creating circumstances ripe for memory manipulation. Those bit flips could include simply changing a 0-to-1 or 1-to-0, according to researchers. The name Drammer is short for deterministic Rowhammer. Researchers explain the details of the vulnerability in a technical paper (PDF) u201cDrammer: Deterministic Rowhammer Attacks on Mobile Platformsu201d this way: The resulting Drammer attack is a privilege-escalation exploit that impacts over a dozen leading Android handset models. Using its own Drammer test app, researchers said out of 27 devices tested they were able to flip bits on 18 of them. You can test mobile Android devices for the vulnerability with an app developed by researchers. Researchers say they told Googleu2019s Android Security team of the flaw on July 25. Google notified hardware partners of the flaw on Oct., 3. The Android Security team said it would issue a partial fix for the flaw (CVE-2016-6728) with its November security bulletin. However researchers point out, Googleu2019s patch will make it much harder for an attacker to launch a Drammer attack, it does not eradicate it. u201cWe hope to see a more sophisticated fix soon,u201d according to researchers. Google has classified the vulnerability as u201ccritical.u201d In the researchersu2019u00a0proof-of-concept attack, a malicious Drammer application was created that required no permissions, raising little suspicion by those installing the targeted app. Worse, researchers warn that the vulnerability becomes especially potent when combined with existing vulnerabilities such as Stagefright or BAndroid. In a proof-of-concept attack implemented in collaboration with the University of California, Santa Barbara, researchers showed how Stagefright mitigation techniques can be bypassed via a Drammer attack.  u201cBy tricking the victim into opening a malicious URL, an attacker gains remote shell access to the vulnerable device,u201d the researchers wrote. u201cSince the exploited mediaserver is not running with root-privileges, however, he still cannot access /sdcard, for example. The attacker then launches the Drammer exploit which does give him full control over the device.u201d Defenses against Drammer attacks range from software blacklisting of specific rewriting instructions such as CLFLUSH. One hardware defense includes doubling DRAM refresh rates. However, both of these mitigation attempts donu2019t eliminate the threat completely. Furthermore, researchers say, doubling DRAM refresh rates would have u201csevere consequences for both power consumption and performanceu201d on devices. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837ed6cefc42b00294a7e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Android Security Report: 29 Percent of Active Devices Not Up To Patch Levels", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/android-security-report-29-percent-of-active-devices-not-up-to-patch-levels/117511/", "Date" : "April 19, 2016 , 12:32 pm", "Article" : "Last year was a landmark time for Android security. Google dealt with a major vulnerability in Stagefright, launched a monthly patch release and vulnerability rewards program, and continued to chip away at the number of malicious applications that find their way onto devices. Given all of that progress, however, Google still struggles with the economics of an ecosystem that undermines some of its security efforts. Patches for OS, kernel and firmware flaws for OEM Android phones, for example, still must be implemented in new devices by manufacturers, who are also supposed to ensure that over-the-air updates are pushed to phones by the carriers. That isnu2019t always the case. In its annual Android Security Report, published today, Google said that 71 percent of active Android devices are running on Android 4.4.4 and higher, the only versions supported by Google with security updates. According to the Android developer dashboard, 33.4 percent of devices are on 4.4, or KitKat, with 40.4 percent running Lollipop or Marshmallow. That still leaves a sizeable number of Android devices running on an unsupported, out of date operating system. The monthly update system, which was launched right alongside the Stagefright disclosures, is a regular over-the-air update for Nexus devices and patch delivery system for Googleu2019s mobile partners. Samsung, BlackBerry and LG were among the first to promise to provide monthly updates to carriers. u201cWe intend the update lifecycle for Nexus devices to be a model for all Android manufacturers going forward and have been actively working with ecosystem partners to facilitate similar programs,u201d said Adrian Ludwig, lead engineer for the Android security team in a blogpost today. u201cSince then, manufacturers have provided monthly security updates for hundreds of unique Android device models and hundreds of millions of users have installed monthly security updates to their devices. u201cDespite this progress, many Android devices are still not receiving monthly updatesu2014we are increasing our efforts to help partners update more devices in a timely manner,u201d Ludwig said. The Android Security Report is a state of the union address from Google on the provideru2019s mobile ecosystem. In it, Google trumpets news security features introduced into Marshmallow such as full disk encryption and encryption of data on SD cards, greater ability to manage app permissions, a verified boot that ensures OS security from the bootloader up, and the inclusion of the Android security patch level, an instant barometer of a phoneu2019s patch levels. Google said it continues to knock down what it calls potentially harmful applications, with growing success in keeping malicious apps out of Google Play (0.15 percent of devices, compared to about 0.5 percent that install apps from third-party sources). Google also reported year-over-year fewer installations of apps from Google Play that collect device data, as well as fewer instances of syware and downloaders. Apps from outside of Google Play, however, went up in almost all of those categories, in particular with malicious downloaders and Trojans showing up on 2.6 percent and 1 percent of devices respectively. Ghost Push is one of those malicious downloaders, which has been public since October 2014, and last summer it spiked to 30 percent of installation attempts worldwide on Android. Google said it found more than 40,000 Ghost Push apps and more than 3.5 billion installation attempts. The report said that Google investigated and found that a company in Southeast Asia responsible for providing OTA update infrastructure and updates to Android manufacturers and carriers was compromised. We were able to determine that the large number of installation attempts we saw were caused by the OTA company continuously trying to install Ghost Push applications on user devices. In some instances, bugs in the application installation software caused the OTA company to try to install the same application hundreds of times onto a single deviceu2014with all but one installation attempt failing,u201d Google said in its report. u201cWe are working with the OTA company to develop a better security process to scan the applications they send out to devices.u201d As for Stagefright, despite the angst and a number of other related vulnerabilities, Google said it did not see or receive reports of public exploits, despite some reports of attacks being folded into active exploit kits. u201cOne important goal of releasing this report is to drive an informed conversation about Android security. We hope to accomplish this by providing more information about what we are doing, and what we see happening in the ecosystem,u201d Googleu2019s Ludwig said. u201cWe strongly believe that rigorous, data-driven discussion about security will help guide our efforts to make the Android ecosystem safer.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3837f06cefc42b00294a80" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "TCP Flaw in Linux Extends to 80 Percent of Android Devices", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/tcp-flaw-in-linux-extends-to-80-percent-of-android-devices/119897/", "Date" : "August 15, 2016 , 5:10 pm", "Article" : "Eight out of 10 Android devices are affected by a critical Linux vulnerability disclosed last week that allows attackers to identify hosts communicating over the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and either terminate connections or attack traffic. The flaw has been present in the TCP implementation in Linux systems since 2012 (version 3.6 of the kernel), and according to researchers at mobile security company Lookout, 80 percent of Android devicesu2014going back to KitKatu2014run the same version of the kernel. The issue was publicly disclosed last week during the USENIX Security Symposium where researchers from the University of California Riverside and the U.S. Army Research Laboratory presented a paper entitled u201cOff-Path TCP Exploits: Global Rate Limit Considered Dangerous.u201d While an attacker would need to be able to identify both ends of a TCP connection before initiating an attack, successful exploits would not need that attacker to be in a man-in-the-middle position on the network, the researchers said. Lookout security researcher Andrew Blaich said that some other Android vulnerabilities such as Stagefright, Quadrooter or other kernel and driver flaws that are being patched on a monthly may be more severe, but this attack is practical and within reach of hackers. u201cThis is about information disclosure and an attacker being able to infer where youu2019re going, what youu2019re viewing and having the ability to inject code,u201d Blaich said, adding that chaining this vulnerability with a WebKit or browser-related bug could allow for remote code execution. u201cAll you need is one of those and this is where this bug gets interesting.u201d A patch has been pushed to the Linux kernel, but Lookout said that as of Friday, the latest developer preview of Android Nougat still remains vulnerable, and the Android Open Source Project has yet to receive the patch as well. Android updates are released monthly to carriers and handset makers, and over-the-air security updates for Nexus devices are sent by Google the first of every month. The Cal-Riverside and Army researchers said last week the problem is linked to the introduction of challenge ACK responses and the imposition of a global rate limit on TCP control packets. u201cAt a very high level, the vulnerability allows an attacker to create contention on a shared resource, i.e., the global rate limit counter on the target system by sending spoofed packets. The attacker can then subsequently observe the effect on the counter changes, measurable through probing packets,u201d the researchers wrote. u201cThrough extensive experimentation, we demonstrate that the attack is extremely effective and reliable. Given any two arbitrary hosts, it takes only 10 seconds to successfully infer whether they are communicating. If there is a connection, subsequently, it takes also only tens of seconds to infer the TCP sequence numbers used on the connection.u201d Blaich cautioned that in some instances where connections must be long-lived such as video conferencing or large file-sharing, attackers could take advantage of those scenarios to exploit this bug. Lookout recommends that until a patch is ready, Android users should rely on encrypted communications, in particular, deploy a VPN. For rooted Android devices, Lookout recommends using the sysctl tool to change the value for net.ipv4.tcp_challenge_ack_limit a large value such as 999999999. Blaich said he expects a patch to be ready for the next monthly Android update, which is set for Sept. 1. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838006cefc42b00294aa0" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Magnitude of glibc Vulnerability Coming to Light", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/magnitude-of-glibc-vulnerability-coming-to-light/116296/", "Date" : "February 17, 2016 , 4:01 pm", "Article" : "Not since Stagefright have we had a vulnerability with the scale and reach of the glibc flaw disclosed on Tuesday. u201cItu2019s pretty bad; you donu2019t get bugs of this magnitude too often,u201d said Dan Kaminsky, researcher, cofounder and chief scientist at White Ops. u201cThe code path is widely exposed and available, and it yields remote code execution.u201d The flaw affects most Linux servers, along with a number of web frameworks and services that make use of the open source GNU C library, including ssh, sudo, curl, PHP, Rails and others. Initial reports about the impact on Android were incorrect given that the OS uses the Bionic libc implementation and not glibc. The harshness of the bug, a stack-based buffer overflow, rests in the fact that it lives in the glibc DNS client-side resolver, or libresolv library. Since DNS is a core network technology and most services rely on it, the horizontal scale of this bug is massive. u201cAn attack would first force a system to make specific DNS queries, using domain names controlled by the attacker. The attacker would then have to run custom-written DNS server software, which generates crafted responses that trigger the vulnerability,u201d Red Hat engineer Florian Weimer told Threatpost. Itu2019s believed that the most direct exploitation vector would be a man-in-the-middle attack where an attacker would already be on the local network. u201cWe do not know how difficult it is to exploit this over the Internet. We assume this is a possibility,u201d Weimer said, adding that he was not aware of any public exploits. Kaminsky added that while man-in-the-middle attacks are problematic, it would be much worse if the flaw were exploitable through DNS caching-only servers. u201cThese servers do some scrubbing to make sure the name that comes back meets a bunch of rules. It dramatically reduces the exploitability of many flaws,u201d Kaminsky said. u201cThe researchers are being cagey, but if they accidentally found the bug through the caching name server, in that case, it could just cause a server to look up an arbitrary name. This would be substantially worse if it went through the caching ecosystem; 99 percent of attack vectors go through that system.u201d Carlos Ou2019Donnell of Red Hat wouldnu2019t commit to that scenario yesterday in an advisory. u201cA back of the envelope analysis shows that it should be possible to write correctly formed DNS responses with attacker controlled payloads that will penetrate a DNS cache hierarchy and therefore allow attackers to exploit machines behind such caches,u201d he wrote. Adding to the severity of the issue is the fact that the vulnerability was introduced in glibc 2.9, which dates back to May 2008, giving attackers close to eight years to find and abuse the bug. u201cWe know as fact that multiple research groups found this and successfully coordinated work to fix it, which is very good,u201d Kaminsky said. u201cBut we know its been around a decent amount of time, and we know itu2019s a golden vector that gets into all sorts of goodies. Likely, this has been discovered and exploited in the field.u201d The bug, CVE-2015-7547, was discovered independently by researchers at Red Hat and Google who privately disclosed the issue to upstream glibc maintainers, Weimer told Threatpost. Coordination between the two camps began on Jan. 6, though the initial bug disclosure was made last July, according to an advisory on the glibc mailing list. Weimer said that most Linux distributions that use glibc have patches available and a regular system upgrade followed by a reboot will address the issue. Source code patches for those who have their own software builds are also available. u201cMost GNU/Linux distributions release glibc updates multiple times per year,u201d Weimer said. u201cThese updates include not just security fixes, but also other bug fixes and performance enhancements. Fixes for glibc may be bundled with Linux kernel updates, making it beneficial to update both at the same time before a reboot.u201d Googleu2019s Fermin Serna said there are temporary mitigations that can be implemented until Linux machines can be patched, including limiting the size of a UDP or TCP response accepted by a DNS resolver, and to ensure that DNS queries are sent only to servers that limit the response size. Kaminsky, however, said that most network admins would be unlikely to implement those mitigations for fear of breaking other services. u201cTheyu2019re still finding bugs of this magnitude accidentally,u201d Kaminsky said. u201cUsing ambient bug discovery on core infrastructure is too slow. This was written in 2008 and it sat there year after year. We need to stop accidentally finding these bugs and start comprehensively finding them.u201d Kamsinsky added that more comprehensive mitigations need to be deployed and enforced. u201cWe need to figure out how to reach a higher level of assurance on low-performance, high-risk code paths,u201d he said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38381c6cefc42b00294ad4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Zero Day in Androidu2019s Google Admin App Can Bypass Sandbox", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/zero-day-in-android-admin-app-can-bypass-sandbox/114274/", "Date" : "August 13, 2015 , 1:53 pm", "Article" : "The Android security team at Google is having a busy month. First the Stagefright vulnerabilities surfaced last month just before Black Hat and now researchers at MWR Labs have released information on an unpatched vulnerability that allows an attacker to bypass the Android sandbox. The vulnerability lies in the way that the Google Admin application on Android phones handles some URLs. If another application on the phone sends the Admin app a specific kind of URL an attacker can bypass the Same Origin Policy and get data from the Admin sandbox. u201cAn issue was found when the Google Admin application received a URL via an IPC call from any other application on the same device. The Admin application would load this URL in a webview within its own activity. If an attacker used a file:// URL to a file that they controlled, then it is possible to use symbolic links to bypass Same Origin Policy and retrieve data out of the Google Admin sandbox,u201dthe advisory from MWR Labs says. An attacker can exploit this vulnerability by getting a malicious app on a victimu2019s phone. MWR Labs notified Google of the vulnerability in March and Google acknowledged the report right away and later said it would have a patch ready by June. But the fix was never pushed out and last week MWR Labs informed Google that it planned to release its advisory, which was published Thursday. Google did not respond to a request for comment on this story. The vulnerability affects the current version of the app, and may affect earlier versions as well. u201cThe Google Admin application (com.google.android.apps.enterprise.cpanel), has an exported activity that accepts an extra string called setup_url. This can be triggered by any application on the device creating a new intent with the data-uri set to http://localhost/foo and the setup_url string set to a file url that they can write to, such as file://data/data/com.themalicious.app/worldreadablefile.html,u201d MWRu2019s advisory says. u201cThe ResetPinActivity will then load this in the WebView under the privileges of the Google Admin application.u201d MWR says that until a patch is deployed by Google, users with the Google Admin app shouldnu2019t install any untrusted third party apps, which is good advice for any mobile phone user. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38381e6cefc42b00294ad5" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Critical Wi-Fi Flaw Patched on Android", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/critical-wi-fi-flaw-patched-on-android/116085/", "Date" : "February 1, 2016 , 2:00 pm", "Article" : "Google today patched Nexus devices in an over-the-air update against a critical vulnerability that could be exploited by an attacker on the same Wi-Fi network. The patch addresses multiple vulnerabilities in the Broadcom Wi-Fi driver that could be abused to allow for remote code execution. The patches were pushed out in builds LMY49G or later to Nexus devices and shared on Jan. 4 with carrier and manufacturer partners. The fixes are expected to be released to the Android Open Source Project in the next two days. Google said it is unaware of public attacks against any of the vulnerabilities patched in todayu2019s Android Security Bulletin. The Wi-Fi vulnerabilities can be exploited by sending a malicious wireless control message packet. The packets could corrupt kernel memory and expose an Android device to remote code execution at the kernel level. u201cThese vulnerabilities can be triggered when the attacker and the victim are associated with the same network,u201d Google said in its advisory. u201cThis issue is rated as a Critical severity due to the possibility of remote code execution in the context of the kernel without requiring user interaction.u201d The flaws, CVE-2016-0801 and CVE-2016-0802, were privately disclosed Oct. 25 by the Broadgate Team, Google said. As has become customary with the monthly Android patch release, Google has again patched critical vulnerabilities in Mediaserver. Flaws in the software were at the crux of last summeru2019s Stagefright vulnerabilities and exploits and continues to be a soft spot. Mediaserver can be attacked via multiple means, most effectively via remote content such as MMS files or browser playback of media files. The service can access audio streams as well, and is granted privileges that other apps do not have, Google said. u201cDuring media file and data processing of a specially crafted file, vulnerabilities in mediaserver could allow an attacker to cause memory corruption and remote code execution as the mediaserver process,u201d Google said in its advisory. The flaw, CVE-2016-0803 and CVE-2016-0804, were separately disclosed in October and November. A separate elevation of privilege flaw was also found and patched in Mediaserver and could be exploited to gain Signature or SignatureOrSystem privileges, Google said. Todayu2019s bulletin also patches two critical vulnerabilities in Qualcomm components, the Qualcomm Performance Module and the Qualcomm Wi-Fi Driver, both of which allow for elevation of privilege for an attacker and can be leveraged to launch further attacks. The Qualcomm performance event manager component for ARM processors can be exploited using a local application to run code at the kernel level. Google said u201cpermanent device compromiseu201d is possible, requiring firmware to be re-flashed in order to patch the operating system. The Qualcomm Wi-Fi driver, meanwhile, can be attacked using a local application to run code at the kernel level as well. Both bugs were disclosed in November. The final critically rated vulnerability was patched in the Debuggerd component and opens the door to the phone being rooted. Debuggerd is a tool used to debug and analyze Android crashes. The flaw, CVE-2016-0807, was found internally, Google said. Todayu2019s bulletin also patches an elevation of privilege flaw in the Android Wi-Fi component, a denial-of-service flaw in the Minikin library, and an information disclosure vulnerability in libmediaplayerserviceu2014all of which were rated High severityu2014and factory reset protection bypass vulnerabilities in the Setup Wizard. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838206cefc42b00294ad8" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Stagefright Patch Incomplete Leaving Android Devices Still Exposed", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stagefright-patch-incomplete-leaving-android-devices-still-exposed/114267/", "Date" : "August 13, 2015 , 1:00 pm", "Article" : "Google today released to open source a new patch for the infamous Stagefright vulnerability found in 950 million Android devices after researchers at Exodus Intelligence discovered the original patch was incomplete and Android devices remain exposed to attack. u201cWeu2019ve already sent the fix to our partners to protect users, and Nexus 4/5/6/7/9/10 and Nexus Player will get the OTA update in the September monthly security update,u201d a Google spokesperson told Threatpost. Last week at Black Hat, Google announced that it would begin monthly OTA security updates for Nexus, and that Samsung and LG also committed to providing carriers with regular updates. The original four-line code fix for CVE-2015-3824, one of several patches submitted by researcher Joshua Drake of Zimperium Mobile Securityu2019s zLabs who discovered the flaw in Stagefright, still leads to a crash and device takeover. Jordan Gruskovnjak, a security researcher at Exodus, found the problem with the patch, and Exodus founder Aaron Portnoy today hinted that there could be similar problems in all the patches. u201cAccording to public sources, many more issues have been discovered since I reported the bugs in the MPEG4 processing. I expect we will see continuing fixes to the Stagefright code base for the coming months,u201d Drake said in an email to Threatpost. u201cThe story is long from over.u201d Portnoy said his company notified Google on Aug. 7, the first day of DEF CON in Las Vegas and two days after Drakeu2019s Stagefright presentation at the Black Hat conference. Google has assigned CVE-2015-3864 to the issue. Google, in the meantime, patched internal Android code branches and as of yesterday continued to push the faulty patches in over-the-air updates to handset makers and carriers. Last Tuesday, Google updated its Nexus mobile phones, versions 4-10, along with the Nexus Player. Silent Circle and Mozilla were among the first vendors to patch their code as well, distributing it to the Blackphone and Firefox browser respectively; Mozilla uses Stagefright in its browser. In addition to Nexus devices, Google said it sent the original patches to other mobile providers, including: Samsung for its Galaxy and Note devices; HTC for the HTC One; LG for the G2, G3 and G4; Sony for its Xperia devices; and Android One. The vulnerabilities affect Android devices going back to version 2.2; newer versions of Android have built-in mitigations such as ASLR that lessen the effects of Stagefright exploits. Google said last week that 90 percent of Android devices have ASLR enabled, and that the next release of its Messenger SMS app also contains a mitigation requiring users to click on videos in order to play them, rendering one attack vector discovered by Zimperiumu2019s Drake moot. A report released today by Exodus Intelligence said that Gruskovnjak had doubts about the completeness of the patch on July 31, but was not able to verify the fix since one had not yet been distributed. Once Gruskovnjak had the updated firmware on a Nexus 5 phone, he developed an MP4 fileu2014the simplest attack vector, Drake said, involved sending a vulnerable device a crafted MMS message that would exploit the vulnerabilityu2014that bypassed the patch. u201cThey failed to account for an integer discrepancy between 32- and 64 bit,u201d Portnoy told Threatpost this morning. u201cTheyu2019re not accounting for specific integer types, and [Gruskovnjak] was able to bypass the patch with specific values that cause a heap buffer allocated to overflow.u201d The vulnerability was widely publicizedu00a0by Zimperium before and during Black Hat, not to mention that Google has had the original bug report since April, yet neither party noticed the discrepancy in the patch. Portnoy said Exodus submitted a fix of its own. u201cEveryone tried coordinated disclosure going back to April, and that did not work so well,u201d Portnoy said, adding that he messaged Drake this morning about the issue. u201cThe thing is, there have been so many eyes on that code, and by hyping it the way they did, malicious people have likely been looking as well, and maybe using it for malicious purposes. u201cThis is the same vulnerability, just with different values you can still corrupt memory the same way as the last time,u201d Portnoy said. u201cItu2019s just as severe as the first day it was dropped.u201d Drake, vice president of platform research and exploitation at Zimperium zLabs, told Threatpost last month that exploits could be particularly insidious given the fact that an attacker need only use a malicious MMS messageu2014or Google Hangouts messageu2014that could trigger the vulnerability without user interaction, and delete the message before the victim is aware. All an attacker would need, Drake said, is the deviceu2019s phone number. Stagefright on Android devices is over-privileged, and granted system access on some devices; it processes most common media formats and because itu2019s implemented in C++, itu2019s much simpler to exploit. u201cOn some devices, [Stagefright] has access to the system group, which is right next to rootu2014very close to rootu2014so it should be easy to get root from system,u201d Drake said. u201cAnd system runs a lot of stuff. Youu2019d be able to monitor communication on the device and do nasty things. u201cThat process, you would think, would be sandboxed and locked down as much as it could because itu2019s processing dangerous, risky code, but it actually has access to the Internet. Android has a group enforcement where it allows [Stagefright] to connect to the Internet. This service is on all Android devices. Iu2019d rather not have a service thatu2019s doing risky processing have Internet access.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38383b6cefc42b00294afc" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Mozilla Patches Critical Vulnerabilities in Firefox 44", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/mozilla-patches-critical-vulnerabilities-in-firefox-44/116033/", "Date" : "January 27, 2016 , 10:35 am", "Article" : "Mozilla has patched a number of critical vulnerabilities in Firefox 44 and Firefox Extended Release 38.6, which were released this week. The most serious flaws were memory vulnerabilities that lived in both the public and extended support versions of the browser. A buffer overflow (write) in WebGL, the browseru2019s Web graphics library, was patched. WebGL is a JavaScript API that renders 3D and 2D graphics in the browser without the need for a plug-in. Mozilla said the vulnerability was discovered in the buffersubdata method of the API. Mozilla also addressed several u201cmemory safety bugsu201d in the engine used in Firefox and other Mozilla products. u201cSome of these bugs showed evidence of memory corruption under certain circumstances, and we presume that with enough effort at least some of these could be exploited to run arbitrary code,u201d Mozilla said in its advisory. Mozilla said the flaws cannot be exploited through Thunderbird where scripting is disabled, but cautioned against the risk in u201cbrowser-like contexts.u201d Three other memory-related bugs were patched in Firefox 44. The vulnerabilities were found in the ANGLE graphics library, and in Firefoxu2019s handling of zip files and parsing of the libstagefright library. u201cThe first two issues do not all have clear mechanisms to be exploited through web content but are vulnerable if a mechanism can be found to trigger them,u201d Mozilla said in its advisory. u201cThe libstagefright issue could potentially be triggered by a malicious MP4 format video file, allowing for arbitrary code execution.u201d Mozilla also patched vulnerabilities it rated u201chigh severityu201d in Firefox 44, including two that facilitate address bar spoofing, and another set of issues in the browseru2019s Network Security Services that can introduce cryptographic weaknesses, the advisory said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838556cefc42b00294b2d" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Researchers Find 85 Percent of Android Devices Insecure", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/researchers-find-85-percent-of-android-devices-insecure/115030/", "Date" : "October 14, 2015 , 3:36 pm", "Article" : "Roughlyu00a085 percent of Android devices have been exposed to one of 13 critical vulnerabilitiesu00a0that plague the operating system u2013 and because of a chronicu00a0failure by carriers to issue patches,u00a0many linger without getting fixed for far too long, researchers said. Especially in the wake of Stagefright, theu00a0disparity betweenu00a0how carriers apply Android patches has been well documented u2013 some devices remain vulnerable for months, others years. Now researchers are assigning numbers to each company to identify just whou2019s better protecting users, in hopes that it serves as an incentive for them to deliver more prompt fixes. Three researchers at the University of Cambridge came up with a scorecard for Android devices theyu2019re calling a FUM score. The score is a number from zero to 10 that breaks down how often manufacturers and network operators are patching their devices. The researchers, Daniel Thomas, Alastair Beresford, and Andrew Rice, presented their work Monday at a conference, the 2015 ACM CCS Workshop on Security and Privacy in Smartphones and Mobile Devices, in Denver, Colorado. Across the ecosystem as a whole, the researchers claim Android manufacturers could stand to do a lot better. On average they scored 2.87 out of 10 according to a paper that accompanies their research, u201cSecurity Metrics for the Android Ecosystem.u201d (.PDF) The three gathered information for theiru00a0research from 21,713 devices through an app, u201cDevice Analyzeru201d thatu2019s been on Google Play since 2011. According to Thomas, the app doesnu2019t scan for vulnerabilities but it does collects information about the device and the use of the device. By looking atu00a0the OS version and build number, the researchers can match OS versions against known vulnerabilities on the day the device was running that version. u201cWe can use the build number to work out when the particular build of Android was produced (by recording when we first observed that build number) and hence detect backports that might have fixed vulnerabilities,u201d Thomas told Threatpost. While the researchers have aggregated 32 critical vulnerabilitiesu00a0to date,u00a0they only used 13u00a0u2013 bugs that affect all Android devices u2013 to plot the graph below.u00a0According to Thomas, on average the researchers found that 85 percent of the devices it monitored were vulnerable to at least one critical vulnerability. n  Google announced in August that it would begin sending Nexus owners over-the-air updates monthly to better protect users from emerging vulnerabilities and attacks. While the researchersu2019 study ended in July, Nexus devices still scored higher than the others, garnering a 5.17 FUM score. Other manufacturers who claim theyu2019re working on pushing out more frequent security updates, like LG and Samsung scored a 3.97 and 2.75 respectively. The researchersu2019 FUM score takes into account the proportion of devices that are free from critical vulnerabilities over time (f), the proportion of devices that run the latest updated version of Android shipped by the manufacturer (u), and the mean number of outstanding vulnerabilities affecting devices not fixed on devices shipped by a manufacturer (m). The researchers hope the metric, which theyu2019ve been working on for four years, can eventually correlate to the security of Android devices on a more widespread level.  The researchers note that the sheer lack of updates Android devices receive on average, just 1.26 updates a year, was part of what drove them to look deeper at the environment. Theyu00a0hope however that by quantifying the problemu00a0they can eventually help customersu00a0whenu00a0it comes to choosingu00a0a device and pressureu00a0manufacturers and operators to deliver updates more consistently. u201cThere is information asymmetry between the manufacturer, who knows whether the device is currently secure and will receive security updates, and the customer, who does not,u201d the researchers write. Given the the recentu00a0Stagefright news,u00a0Thomas is hoping the groupu2019s research was published at a time whenu00a0manufacturers are growingu00a0more sensitive to security news. But while the researchers have spoken to officials from some device manufacturers u2013 and plan to have further meetings u2013 Thomas believesu00a0itu2019s too early to know exactlyu00a0what the impact of their research will be. u201cWe are hopeful that this work will improve the Android ecosystem by providing and economic incentive to improve security but only time will tell.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838596cefc42b00294b32" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Plans Monthly Security Updates for Nexus Phones", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-plans-monthly-security-updates-for-nexus-phones/114148/", "Date" : "August 5, 2015 , 7:23 pm", "Article" : "LAS VEGASu2013Google is changing the way that it updates its Nexus Android phones and will now send out monthly over-the-air updates to users. The first update is being pushed out today, and the company said that other Android handset manufacturers are planning to follow suit and provide monthly updates to carriers. The moves are a welcome change for Android users who areu00a0at the mercy of carriers for patches and other software updates. Individual carriers are responsible for sending out their own Android patches, and security researchers have been critical of the carriers in the past for being slow to do sou2013or for not patching at all. The change from Google, LG, and Samsung comes a week after the disclosure of a serious vulnerability in Stagefright, a component of Android that handles media playback. That bug, discovered by researcher Joshua Drake of Zimperium, enables an attacker to gain control of a target device by sending a specially crafted malicious MMS message to it. Google has been aware of the vulnerability for several months and is pushing out the patch for it to Nexus users today. In a talk at the Black Hat conference here Wednesday, Adrian Ludwig, lead engineer for Android security at Google, said the company plans more frequent updates for Nexus users and for other handset makers. u201cFrom this week on, Nexus devices will receive regular OTA updates each month focused on security, in addition to the usual platform updates. The first security update of this kind began rolling out today, Wednesday August 5th, to Nexus 4, Nexus 5, Nexus 6, Nexus 7, Nexus 9, Nexus 10, and Nexus Player. This security update contains fixes for issues in bulletins provided to partners through July 2015, including fixes for the libStageFright issues,u201d Ludwig wrote in a blog post explaining the changes. The shift to monthly updates gives Nexus users a better chance of being safe from emerging vulnerabilities and attacks. But customers who use other handsets still have to rely on their carriers to actually push out the patches that the manufacturers provide. Both LG and Samsung, two of the larger Android manufacturers, have committed to getting those updates to carriers more quickly. u201cWith the recent security issues, we have been rethinking the approach to getting security updates to our devices in a more timely manner. Since software is constantly exploited in new ways, developing a fast response process to deliver security patches to our devices is critical to keep them protected. We believe that this new process will vastly improve the security of our devices and will aim to provide the best mobile experience possible for our users.u201d said Dong Jin Koh, executive vice president and head of Mobile Research and Development Office, IT & Mobile Communications at Samsung. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38385a6cefc42b00294b34" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Apple Releases Patches for iOS, OS X and Safari", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/apple-releases-patches-for-ios-os-x-and-safari/115946/", "Date" : "January 20, 2016 , 8:53 am", "Article" : "Apple on Tuesday released security patches for iOS, OS X and an update for the Safari browser. The patches come less than a week after a ShmooCon presentation by Synack director of research Patrick Wardle revealed that Appleu2019s Gatekeeper security feature in OS X can be bypassed by an attacker with network-level access. The OS X update, El Capitan 10.11.3, patches nine vulnerabilities flaws including memory corruption issues in the OS X kernel, Apple Graphics Power Management, Disk Images, IOAccelerator Family, IOHIDFamily, and IOKit that enable attackers on the local network to execute arbitrary code with local privileges. Apple also patched a type confusion issue in libxslt that can be executed in a web-based attack leading to code execution; the flaw affects Mavericks, Yosemite and current versions of El Capitan. Another critical memory corruption issue leading to code execution with root privileges was patched in syslog. The flaw was privately disclosed by Joshua Drake and Nikias Bassen of Zimperium zLabs; Drake last summer discovered and reported the Stagefright vulnerabilities in Android. The final OS X flaw was found in OSA (Open Scripting Architecture) for El Capitan where a quarantined application could override a useru2019s OSA script libraries. Apple also updated iOS, putting users on iOS 9.2.1 and patching 13 vulnerabilities in the process. Most of the vulnerabilities expose iOS users to arbitrary code execution, either by an attacker with local access, or via the Web. Apple also patched five memory corruption flaws in WebKit that could lead to arbitrary code execution, and another critical issue in WebKit CSS affecting user privacy by exposing whether a user have visited a given link to websites. Apple said it improved validation in this process, addressing the issue. Apple said it improved memory handling for all of the WebKit flaws, which were found internally. A WebSheet flaw was also patched in iOS 9.2.1 where a malicious captive portal could access or write cookies. The same WebKit and WebKit CSS vulnerabilities were also addressed in the Safari update; users were moved to Safari 9.0.3. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838846cefc42b00294b76" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Pushes Stagefright 2.0 Patches to Nexus Devices", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-pushes-stagefright-2-0-patches-to-nexus-devices/114923/", "Date" : "October 5, 2015 , 4:34 pm", "Article" : "Google today patched the latest round of Stagefright vulnerabilities in Android, pushing them out as part of its latest over-the-air update to Nexus devices. Stagefright 2.0, as itu2019s come to be known, affected the Stagefright media playback engine in Android and one billion devices dating back to the earliest versions of the OS are thought to be vulnerable. Researcher Joshua Drake of Zimperium disclosed the flaws last week after privately reporting them to Google. Drake discovered the initial set Stagefright issues and disclosed those at the Black Hat and DEF CON conferences this summer; the same timeframe when those vulnerabilities were patched and Google announced the start of its monthly OTA updates. A Google spokesperson said last week that patches were provided to partners on Sept. 10 and that it was working with OEMs and carriers to deliver those updates as soon as possible. Google said that new Nexus firmware images were released to the Google Developer website in builds LMY48T or later. The Stagefright vulnerabilities merit attention not only for the breadth of devices they affect, but for the simplicity in which they could be exploited. Stagefright 1.0, for example, need only a specially crafted MMS message to be automatically processed by the Stagefright engine to exploit the vulnerability. Google has since patched that attack vector in its Messenger and Hangouts apps. In the latest set of flaws, an attacker would need to entice the victim to use a mobile browser via phishing or malvertising to surf to a website hosting an exploitu2014in the case of Stagefright 2.0, specially crafted audio files. Attackers could also man-in-the-middle a useru2019s traffic and inject the exploit, or trick the user into downloading a third-party app that uses the vulnerable library. The Stagefright 2.0 vulnerabilities were found in a core Android library called libtuils, while the second, a dependent vulnerability in libstagefright, was introduced in Android 5.0; it calls into libutils in an vulnerable manner. Google said today it still has not had reports of public exploits. u201cThe affected functionality is provided as an application API and there are multiple applications that allow it to be reached with remote content, most notably MMS and browser playback of media,u201d Google said of the libutils bugs. In all, 15 vulnerabilities were patched in libstagefright, and the two in libutils; 30 vulnerabilities were patched today. Google also patched critical vulnerabilities in a number of other components, many of which enable remote code execution via media files in components such as Sonivox, libFLAC, Skia, Media Player Framework and Mediaserver. A privilege elevation vulnerability was also patched in KeyStore, which could be abused by a malicious app calling into a KeyStore API causing memory corruption and code execution. A similar privilege elevation bug was also fixed in Android Runtime, enabling elevated privileges in Signature or SignatureOrSystem that are not generally available to third-party apps. Google also patched lower-severity bugs in Secure Element Evaluation Kit, Media Projection component, Bluetooth and SQLite. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38388b6cefc42b00294b83" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Stagefright 2.0 Vulnerabilities Affect 1 Billion Android Devices", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stagefright-2-0-vulnerabilities-affect-1-billion-android-devices/114863/", "Date" : "October 1, 2015 , 7:00 am", "Article" : "When researcher Joshua Drake published details in August about critical Android vulnerabilities in the Stagefright media playback engine, he promised there would be more issues that he and others would find and report to Googleu2019s Android security team. Today, Drake, vice president of platform research and exploitation at Zimperium, disclosed two more flaws in Stagefright, one that dates back to the first version of Android, and a second dependent vulnerability that was introduced in Android 5.0. The bugs affect more than one billion Android devices, essentially all of them in circulation. While the first Stagefright flaw was patched in short order by Google and deployed by carriers and handset makers, updates for these two vulnerabilities are not yet available to the general public. A Google spokesperson told Threatpost today that the patches were provided to partners on Sept. 10. The patches will be rolled out to Nexus users and included in the next monthly Android security update scheduled for Oct. 5. The patches were also, inadvertently, pushed to the Android Open Source Project (ASOP), said Zuk Avraham, chairman and founder of Zimperium. The risks with these vulnerabilities, dubbed Stagefright 2.0, are nearly identical to the original Stagefright flaws; the only difference is that the attack vector for the first bugs has been patched. Successful exploits would enable remote code execution and lead to privilege escalation, putting an attacker in control over a compromised device. They would have access to personal data and photos stored on the phone, be able to take photos, record conversations, exfiltrate email and SMS/MMS messages and load additional apps. u201cItu2019s as dangerous as Stagefright 1.0,u201d said Avraham, who added that Zimperium is not aware of public exploits of these issues. But given that one of the bugs has been in Android since the very beginning, itu2019s likely they could have been used in an attack. Stagefright 1.0, however, was exploited via a specially crafted MMS message which were at the time automatically processed by Stagefright. Googleu2019s patch means Stagefright no longer does so, especially in new versions of Googleu2019s Messenger and Hangouts apps. With Stagefright 2.0, Avraham said the most logical attack vector would be the mobile browser where an attacker tricks the victim via phishing or malvertising to visit a URL hosting the exploit. An attacker could also inject the exploit via a man-in-the-middle attack, or host a malicious third-party app that uses the vulnerable library. Like the first set of attacks, Stagefright 2.0 exploits are a way onto the phone. Stagefright is granted some system-level privileges, giving the attacker the opportunity to elevate their privileges with additional attacks in order to control the device. u201cItu2019s a library that was written very badly,u201d Avraham said of Stagefright. u201cThe library itself is pretty vulnerable; it has a lot of code mistakes. The media processing is not as safe as it should be.u201d One of the vulnerabilities has been assigned CVE-2015-6602 and was found in a core Android library called libutils; it has been in the Android OS since it was first released and before there were even Android mobile devices. The second vulnerability was introduced into libstagefright in Android 5.0; it calls into libutils in a vulnerable way, Avraham said. An attacker would use a specially crafted MP3 or MP4 file in this case to exploit the vulnerabilities. The libutils vulnerability is critical because it could extend into many areas of Android. u201cDetermining all possible ways that a core library component has been used across the Android ecosystem is an insurmountable task,u201d said a FAQ published by Zimperium. u201cEvery piece of code that uses the vulnerable library needs to be inspected to see if it calls APIs within libutils in a vulnerable way. Then, each potentially vulnerable use would need to be inspected and analyzed individually.u201d The libstagefright issue affects apps that utilize Androidu2019s multimedia APIs, which call into the library. u201cIn each case, the vulnerable code runs inside mediaserver,u201d Zimperium said. Stagefright 1.0 was disclosed during presentations given by Drake at Black Hat and DEF CON in August. The original exploits were particularly worrisome given that an attacker need only know the victimu2019s phone number in order send a crafted MMS message to a phone to trigger the vulnerability without user interaction; an attacker could also delete the MMS before the victim was it aware it was sent. Stagefright is an over-privileged application with system access on some devices, which enables privileges similar to apps with root access. Stagefright is used to process a number of common media formats, and itu2019s implemented in native C++ code, making it simpler to exploit. u201cOn some devices, [Stagefright] has access to the system group, which is right next to rootu2014very close to rootu2014so it should be easy to get root from system,u201d Drake told Threatpost in July. u201cAnd system runs a lot of stuff. Youu2019d be able to monitor communication on the device and do nasty things. u201cThat process, you would think, would be sandboxed and locked down as much as it could because itu2019s processing dangerous, risky code, but it actually has access to the Internet,u201d Drake said. u201cAndroid has a group enforcement where it allows [Stagefright] to connect to the Internet. This service is on all Android devices. Iu2019d rather not have a service thatu2019s doing risky processing have Internet access.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838946cefc42b00294b94" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Android Stagefright Flaws Put 950 Million Devices at Risk", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/android-stagefright-flaws-put-950-million-devices-at-risk/113960/", "Date" : "July 27, 2015 , 9:58 am", "Article" : "Vulnerabilities discovered in the Stagefright media playback engine that is native to Android devices could be the mobile worldu2019s equivalent to Heartbleed. Almost all Android devices contain the security and implementation issues in question; unpatched devices are at risk to straightforward attacks against specific users that put their privacy, data and safety at risk. Google has patched internal code branches, but devices require over-the-air updates and given the shaky history of handset manufacturers and carriers pushing out security fixes, itu2019s unknown how long it will take to update vulnerable devices, or whether some will ever get fixed. Silent Circle has patched its Blackphone against the vulnerabilities, as has Mozilla, which uses Stagefright code in Firefox. The flaws have been in Android sinceu2014and includingu2014version 2.2; devices running Android versions older than Jelly Bean (4.2) are at greater risk since they lack exploit mitigations that have been built into newer versions of the OS. Researcher Joshua Drake, vice president of platform research and exploitation at Zimperium zLabs, said exploits could be particularly insidious given the fact that an attacker need only use a malicious MMS message that could trigger the vulnerability without user interaction, and delete the message before the victim is aware. All an attacker would need, Drake said, is the deviceu2019s phone number. u201cItu2019s a nasty attack vector,u201d he said. The problem is that Stagefright is an over-privileged application with system access on some devices, which enables privileges similar to apps with root access. Stagefright is used to process a number of common media formats, and itu2019s implemented in native C++ code, making it simpler to exploit. u201cOn some devices, [Stagefright] has access to the system group, which is right next to rootu2014very close to rootu2014so it should be easy to get root from system,u201d Drake said. u201cAnd system runs a lot of stuff. Youu2019d be able to monitor communication on the device and do nasty things. u201cThat process, you would think, would be sandboxed and locked down as much as it could because itu2019s processing dangerous, risky code, but it actually has access to the Internet. Android has a group enforcement where it allows [Stagefright] to connect to the Internet. This service is on all Android devices. Iu2019d rather not have a service thatu2019s doing risky processing have Internet access.u201d Drake estimates that 950 million Android devices could be exposed by the half-dozen bugs and implementation issues heu2019s expected to detail in a presentation next week during the Black Hat conference in Las Vegas. Drake speculates that Stagefright has its excessive permissions and Internet access to satisfy some types of digital rights management processing or streaming playback. Drake characterized the metadata processing happening around mpeg4 files as aggressive and promiscuous, behaviors that allow an attacker to silently trigger exploits in the background. u201cWhen I see promiscuous behaviors, I get nervous,u201d he said. u201cItu2019s not a good idea to process that much from untrusted sources.u201d An attacker in possession of their targetu2019s phone number could send an MMS or even a Google Hangouts message to an affected device that triggers the vulnerability before the victim has a chance to open the message. In some cases, the attack would delete the MMS in question, leaving behind only a notification that a message was sent. Drake said the processing carried out by Stagefright is a bad design and implementation choice, and that once he dug in and did additional fuzzing and learned more context from prior work, he said he uncovered close to a dozen issues, with half of those being critical remote code execution vulnerabilities; the others were less serious and did not have RCE implications. u201cI think itu2019s a bad idea to do this sort of processing,u201d Drake said. There are some mitigations, for example, in Google Hangout settings, a user is able to request that MMS messages are not automatically downloaded. u201cOlder devices donu2019t have that option, older devices are more exposed and at risk,u201d Drake said, adding that exploits against Ice Cream Sandwich and Gingerbread are much easier to develop and put those versions at extreme risk. u201cThey donu2019t have the hardening measures Android has these days.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38389f6cefc42b00294baa" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Silent Circle Patches Modem Flaw That Exposes Blackphone to Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/silentcircle-patches-modem-flaw-that-exposes-blackphone-to-attack/115793/", "Date" : "January 6, 2016 , 9:34 am", "Article" : "Silent Circle, makers of the security and privacy focused Blackphone, have patched a vulnerability that could allow a malicious mobile application or remote attacker to access the deviceu2019s modem and perform any number of actions. The update was released Dec. 7 in version 1.1.13 RC3; details of the issue were disclosed today by SentinelOne, which discovered the problem in August and coordinated a fix and disclosure through Bugcrowd. The Blackphone includes encrypted messaging services such as Silent Text and Silent Phone, and is meant to be a deterrent to hackers and surveillance efforts alike. SentinelOne director of mobile research Tim Strazzere said he found an open socketu2014shell@blackphone:/dev/socket $ ls u00adl at_pal srwu00adrwu00adrwu00ad radio system 2015u00ad07u00ad31 17:51 at_palu2014accessible on the phone that the agps_daemon, a system-level shell is able to communicate with. The vulnerability, CVE-2015-6841, is specific to the modem used by the Blackphone, the Icera modem developed by nVidia. The manufacturer announced in May it was discontinuing its Icera softmodem business. Strazzere said that an attacker could use a malicious app, or chain together a Stagefright-type exploit with this vulnerability, to send commands to the phoneu2019s radio. The result poses a number of privacy and security woes for victims; an attacker could enable call forwarding, mute the phone, or send and read SMS messages all without leaving a trace on the device. u201cIf an attacker got you to download a benign app that talks to the socket that is left open, it provides them with a direct link to the modem,u201d Strazzere said. The app, he said, would not have to request unnecessary permissions from the user, for example, which might trigger some suspicions about its intent. u201cYou would be able to do anything the modem could do. This would allow someone to masquerade their app with no permissions and access things theyu2019re not supposed to.u201d Strazzere said heu2019s unaware of attacks compromising this vulnerability, though he said it was relatively easy to find. The researcher said he stumbled upon it in preparation for Red Naga training in advance of last summeru2019s DEF CON. In a report published today, Strazzere explained how the agps_daemon interacts with the modem: The Icera modem, meanwhile, is expected to be phased out completely some time this year. Strazzere said he had never seen one in use and wasnu2019t sure why it was deployed in the Blackphone. The open socket, meanwhile, was likely not supposed to make it to the production model, he said. u201cIt might be a remnant; it appears they left it in there to do some debugging,u201d Strazzere said. u201cMaybe it was meant to be removed, but they forgot. It looks like it was left there to help with debugging or testing things out.u201d Instead, it opened the door to a laundry list of problems that would put a Blackphone user at risk. Blackphones are not commodity devices; theyu2019re preferred by privacy-conscious people, or those in oppressed areas wish to keep their personal safety in check. The vulnerability opens the door to any number of problems beyond the interception of calls and messages; SentinelOne said, for example, an attacker would be able to find neighboring cell towers the device connected to, or kill the modem altogether, leaving the victim without a means of communicating. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838a66cefc42b00294bba" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches Another Critical Mediaserver Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-patches-another-critical-mediaserver-vulnerability/115766/", "Date" : "January 4, 2016 , 2:01 pm", "Article" : "Since last summeru2019s Stagefright vulnerabilities toppled the Android world for a few weeks, researchers inside and out of Google have been taking a close look at not only the maligned media playback engine, but also at Mediaserver where it lives. Todayu2019s release of the monthly Android Nexus Security Bulletin includes patches for another critical vulnerability in Mediaserver, keeping a streak going of consecutive months with serious issues addressed in the software. Flaws in Mediaserver pose serious problems for Android devices because it interacts with a number of applications that can be used to exploit the bug, including MMS and browser media playback features. Versions 5.0, 5.1.1, 6.0 and 6.0.1 are affected, Google said. Google said in todayu2019s advisory that the Mediaserver flaw, CVE-2015-6636, is the most serious among the dozen being patched, and that it allows an attacker to use email, web browsing MMS processing of media files to exploit the vulnerability and remotely execute code. u201cDuring media file and data processing of a specially crafted file, vulnerabilities in mediaserver could allow an attacker to cause memory corruption and remote code execution as the mediaserver process,u201d Google said. Google patched five vulnerabilities, including Mediaserver, that it rated critical, two rated high, and five others rated moderate. The remaining critical flaws were all elevation of privilege issues in the misc-sd driver, the Imagination Technologies driver, Trustzone, the Android kernel and in the Bluetooth implementation. The misc-sd driver and Imagination Technologies driver issues could malicious apps downloaded to the device to execute code at kernel level, and could result in a permanent compromise that would be addressed only by re-flashing the operating system, Google said. The Trustzone vulnerabilities were found in the Widevine QSEE Trustzone application and would allow the compromise of apps with access to the QSEECOM to execute code in the Trustzone context, Google said. A separate elevation of privilege issue was found in the kernel that would also open the door to malicious apps executing code in the kernel. Of the two flaws rated High by Google, the one found in the Android Bluetooth component puts personal information at risk. It, Google said, could allow a device paired over Bluetooth to access personal information such as contacts. The other rated high is an information disclosure vulnerability in the kernel that could allow an attacker to bypass security features in the operating system. Google added the flaws could be used to gain elevated privileges such as Signature or SignatureOrSystem. The remaining vulnerabilities addressed today were rated moderate and include elevation of privilege flaws in the Android Setup Wizard and Wi-Fi, an information disclosure bug in Bouncy Castle crypto APIs, and a denial-of-service flaw in SyncManager. Google also removed SysV IPC from Android because it is not supported in the OS and exposes additional attack surface. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838ac6cefc42b00294bc2" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Threatpostu2019s 2015 Year in Review", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/threatposts-2015-year-in-review/115732/", "Date" : "December 24, 2015 , 9:00 am", "Article" : "With 2015 more or less in the rear view mirror Mike Mimoso and Chris Brook discuss the year in security: Wassenaar, ransomware, Carbanak and Equation Group,how big of a dealu00a0Stagefright was, that Juniper backdoor, and more.  Download:u00a0tp_2015_in_review.mp3 Music by Chris Gonsalves  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838d96cefc42b00294c14" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Patches Critical Android Mediaserver Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-patches-critical-android-mediaserver-vulnerability/115590/", "Date" : "December 8, 2015 , 11:21 am", "Article" : "Google has patched another critical Android vulnerability in Mediaserver, which has been maligned since this summeru2019s barrage of patches for the Stagefright vulnerability, along with a critical rooting vulnerability in the mobile operating systemu2019s kernel. In all, 19 vulnerabilities were patched in Mondayu2019s monthly over-the-air security update for Google Nexus mobile devices, five rated critical, 12 rated high, and two rated moderate. The issues were resolved in Nexus firmware Builds LMY48Z and later, and Android Marshmallow. Google said that source code patches will be available within the Android Open Source Project repository within 48 hours. The Mediaserver flaw, CVE-2015-6616, is the most serious, Google said, adding that four of the critical bugs can be exploited remotely. u201cDuring media file and data processing of a specially crafted file, vulnerabilities in mediaserver could allow an attacker to cause memory corruption and remote code execution as the mediaserver process,u201d Google said in its security bulletin. Mediaserver is a core component of the Android OS and it interacts with a number of applications that can be used to exploit the bug, including MMS and browser media playback features, Google said. In November, Google patched another batch of Stagefright vulnerabilities living in Mediaserver; a separate critical vulnerability was also patched in the service. Yesterdayu2019s update also included a patch for privilege elevation and information disclosure bugs in Stagefright that Google rated high severity. The privilege elevation bug could enable an attacker to gain Signature or SignatureOrSystem permissions that are accessible only locally, and not by third-party applications, while the information disclosure bug that happens during communication with Mediaserver and bypasses security measures in place, Google said. Google also patched a critical privilege elevation vulnerability in the Android kernel. CVE-2015-06619. An attacker could use a malicious Android app to execute code at the root level, and could lead to u201clocal permanent device compromise.u201d Google said in that case, a device would have to be re-flashed. A remote code execution bug was also patched in the Android Skia Graphics Engine, CVE-2015-6617. An attacker could exploit this vulnerability via a number of different avenues, including email, web browsing and MMS when processing media files. The remaining critical vulnerabilities were patched in Android display drivers, exploitable remotely via media file processing. Google said exploits could be carried out over MMS, email and browsing malicious content, and could lead to memory corruption and code execution. Google also patched vulnerabilities in Bluetooth, SystemUI, Native Frameworks Library, Wi-Fi, System Server, Audio, and Media Framework that it rated high, and other flaws in System Server and SystemUI that were rated moderate. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3838e66cefc42b00294c33" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Android Stagefright Exploit Code Released to Public", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/android-stagefright-exploit-code-released-to-public/114601/", "Date" : "September 9, 2015 , 12:06 pm", "Article" : "Joshua Drake, the researcher who found the so-called Stagefright vulnerability in Android, today released exploit code to the public, which he hopes will be used to test systemsu2019 exposure to the flaw. The move comes more than a month after vulnerability details were released in August during presentations at the Black Hat and DEF CON security conferences in Las Vegas. Since then, Google has released updates that block the most serious exploit vector where an attacker could take over an Android device merely by sending it a malicious MMS message.  Drake, vice president of platform research and exploitation at Zimperium zLabs, said in July the bug could affect more than 950 million Android devices. He chose not to publish exploit code at the time, giving Google time to push patches to the Android Open Source Project and subsequently to handset manufacturers and carriers. He originally planned to release exploit code on Aug. 24. Google, meanwhile, wasted no time in changing the way it releases security updates for Android, announcing at Black Hat that it would send monthly over-the-air updates its Nexus phones. The move was mirrored by others, including Samsung and LG, and the first Nexus updates included patches for Stagefright. Silent Circle also patched its Blackphone and Mozilla patched Firefox, which uses Stagefright code in the browser. Stagefright is the name of the media playback engine native to Android, and the vulnerabilities Drake discovered date back to version 2.2; devices older than Jelly Bean (4.2) are especially at risk since they lack exploit mitigations such as Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) that are present in newer versions of Android. The problem is that Stagefright is an over-privileged application with system access on some devices, which enables privileges similar to apps with root access. Stagefright is used to process a number of common media formats, and itu2019s implemented in native C++ code, making it simpler to exploit. u201cOn some devices, [Stagefright] has access to the system group, which is right next to rootu2014very close to rootu2014so it should be easy to get root from system,u201d Drake told Threatpost in July. u201cAnd system runs a lot of stuff. Youu2019d be able to monitor communication on the device and do nasty things. u201cThat process, you would think, would be sandboxed and locked down as much as it could because itu2019s processing dangerous, risky code, but it actually has access to the Internet. Android has a group enforcement where it allows [Stagefright] to connect to the Internet. This service is on all Android devices. Iu2019d rather not have a service thatu2019s doing risky processing have Internet access.u201d An attacker can send a vulnerable device a specially crafted MMS or Google Hangouts message that exploits the flaw. The MMS does not have to be viewed or read, and can be deleted remotely by the attacker before the victim is aware the phone ever received it. u201cGoogle released new versions of Hangouts and Messenger to block automatic processing of multimedia files arriving via MMS. Weu2019ve tested these updated versions and are happy to confirm they prevent unassisted remote exploitation,u201d Zimperium said today in a blog post. u201cHowever, this attack vector constituted only the worst of more than 10 different ways potentially malicious media is processed by the Stagefright library. With these other vectors still present, the importance of fixing issues within the code base remains very high.u201d Other researchers, meanwhile, found additional security issues using Stagefright as a starting point, including researcher from Exodus Intelligence that demonstrated one of the patches built and submitted by Drake was incomplete. Using the updated firmware on a Nexus 5 phone, Exodusu2019 Jordan Gruskovnjak developed an MP4 file that bypassed the patch. u201cThey failed to account for an integer discrepancy between 32- and 64 bit,u201d Exodus founder Aaron Portnoy told Threatpost. u201cTheyu2019re not accounting for specific integer types, and [Gruskovnjak] was able to bypass the patch with specific values that cause a heap buffer allocated to overflow.u201d This bug has been patched in AOSP as have many of the other Stagefright issues, leading some to speculate that the next OTA update from Google could be one of biggest security fixes ever. u201cThe most positive thing about our Stagefright research is waking the ecosystem and forcing it to realize updates must distribute more timely. Industry leading vendors clearly stated that they intend to provide security updates on a monthly basis,u201d Zimperium said. u201cNow that we are facing additional vulnerabilities, weu2019ll see for ourselves if our devices get these updates or not. In the meantime, updates addressing the initial set of issues we disclosed continue to roll out to affected devices.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839386cefc42b00294cbb" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Google Project Zero Turns Over 11 Bugs in Galaxy S6 Edge", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-project-zero-turns-over-11-bugs-in-galaxy-s6-edge/115250/", "Date" : "November 3, 2015 , 2:36 pm", "Article" : "Googleu2019s Nexus Android devices are considered the most secure by default since theyu2019re guaranteed to receive all security patches for vulnerabilities found internally and those disclosed by third parties. Googleu2019s Project Zero research team, however, decided to expand its reach and test the waters with one of its biggest OEM partners in Samsung, evaluating the security of the Galaxy S6 Edge. u201cOEMs are an important area for Android security research, as they introduce additional (and possibly vulnerable) code into Android devices at all privilege levels, and they decide the frequency of the security updates that they provide for their devices to carriers,u201d Google researcher Natalie Silvanovich wrote Monday in a blog post. Non-Nexus devices are at the mercy of handset makers and carriers, who sometimes are slow in pushing security updates to phones. The weeklong internal project resulted in the discovery of 11 high-impact vulnerabilities, all of which were reported to Samsung. All but three of the issues were patched in Samsungu2019s October maintenance release; the remaining three vulnerabilities are less severe, Google said, and are expected to be updated this month. North American Project Zero members competed against their European counterparts in this exercise. Each side was given three challenges: gain remote access to data stored on the device such as contact information, photos and messages; gain access access to the same data from an app installed from Google Play with no permissions; and using the access gained in either of the first challenges, maintain persistence even if the device was wiped. From the Google report: The researchers said SELinux, a fairly recent addition to Android, did present a significant roadblock to finding bugs and determining attack surface, as did the disabling of the setenforce command, which is used to switch between permissive and enforcing modes at runtime. The researchers said a directory traversal vulnerability in the Samsung WifiJs20UtilityService was probably the most interesting. An API used to unzip zip files does not verify a file patch and it can be written in unexpected locations, Google said, adding that it was trivially exploitable with techniques used to exploit other similar vulnerabilities. Researchers also found poor authentication in the Samsung Email client intent handler. u201cAn unprivileged application can send a series of intents that causes the useru2019s emails to be forwarded to another account. It is a very noisy attack, as the forwarded emails show up in the useru2019s sent folder, but it is still easy access to data that not even a privileged app should be able to access,u201d Googleu2019s researchers said. The Email client was also vulnerable to a script injection flaw that allows JavaScript embedded in a message to be executed in the client. Three driver issues were also reported, buffer overflows that allow an attacker to escalate privileges and carry out other aspects of an attack. u201cThese could be used by bugs in media processing, such as libstagefright bugs, to escalate to kernel privileges,u201d the researchers said. The researchers were also able to find a handful of memory corruption issues in Samsung-specific image processing, triggered when images are opened in Samsung Gallery or merely downloaded, and allow privilege escalation in the Gallery app or media-scanning process. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839416cefc42b00294cc8" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Monthly Android Security Update Patches More Stagefright Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/monthly-android-security-update-patches-more-stagefright-vulnerabilities/115220/", "Date" : "November 2, 2015 , 3:10 pm", "Article" : "The Stagefright vulnerabilities are the gifts that keep on giving. Months after the potentially devastating security flaws in the mobile OS were publicly disclosed, Google continues to send out patches addressing vulnerabilities related to the initial reports. Todayu2019s monthly Android security bulletin, the fourth since Google announced at Black Hat this summer it would begin regular patch updates, includes a fix for another flaw in the Stagefright media playback engine, one in libutils where the Stagefright 2.0 vulnerabilities were found, and two in Android Mediaserver where all the vulnerable code runs. The over-the-air update was released today to Googleu2019s Nexus devices and will be added to the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) repository in the next two days; Google partners including Samsung were provided the patches on Oct. 5, Google said, adding that the vulnerabilities are patched in Build LMY48X or later, or in Android Marshmallow with a patch level of Nov. 1. Google rated one of the Mediaserver vulnerabilities, CVE-2015-6608, as critical, as it did the libutils flaw, CVE-2015-6609; both allow for remote code execution if exploited. Mediaserver is a core part of the Android OS and a number of applications that accept remote contact interact with it, Google said, pointing to MMS messaging and media playback via the browser as two examples. u201cDuring media file and data processing of a specially crafted file, vulnerabilities in mediaserver could allow an attacker to cause memory corruption and remote code execution as the mediaserver process,u201d Google said in its advisory. u201cThis issue is rated as a critical severity due to the possibility of remote code execution within the context of the mediaserver service. The mediaserver service has access to audio and video streams as well as access to privileges that third-party apps cannot normally access.u201d The libutils vulnerability, meanwhile, leads to memory corruption that an attacker could exploit to run code remotely. u201cThe affected functionality is provided as an API and there are multiple applications that allow it to be reached with remote content, most notably MMS and browser playback of media,u201d Google said in its advisory. u201cThis issue is rated as a critical severity issue due to the possibility of remote code execution in a privileged service. The affected component has access to audio and video streams as well as access to privileges that third-party apps cannot normally access.u201d Google said itu2019s unaware of public exploits of any of these vulnerabilities. Google also said that the critical Mediaserver vulnerability was discovered internally by Abhishek Arya, Oliver Chang and Martin Barbella of the Chrome Security Team, while the libutils flaw was privately reported Aug. 3 by Daniel Micay of Copperhead Security. Micay told Threatpost he reported in August three vulnerabilities in libutils, two of which lead to code execution are exposed via libstagefright, he said, adding that one, CVE-2015-3875, was already patched in October. u201cA libstagefright vulnerability (including one inherited from libutils due to the fact that it uses it) can give an attack remote code execution in the mediaserver process that uses libstagefright. The attack vectors range from media in web pages (browser), media via texts (MMS), downloaded media files (mediaserver automatically scans/analyzes all media files in Androidu2019s shared storage area),u201d Micay said. u201cThe libutils vulns are more serious because they can also expose vulnerabilities in other areas, such as a way for the attacker to escalate from a compromise of the mediaserver process to root (by attacking system_server, etc.).u201d The remaining Mediaserver vulnerability, CVE-2015-6611, is an information disclosure bug that is rated High by Google. Google also patched three elevation of privilege vulnerabilities in libstagefright (CVE-2015-6610), libmedia (CVE-2015-6612), and Bluetooth (CVE-2015-6613), all of which it rated High. The remaining bug, CVE-2015-6614, is an elevation of privilege flaw in Telephony. The Stagefright vulnerability was privately reported Aug. 19 by Seven Shen of Trend Micro. A local malicious app, Google said, causes memory corruption and paves the way for code execution within Mediaserver; Google said there is a lower likelihood it can be exploited remotely. The original Stagefright bugs were disclosed by researcher Joshua Drake of Zimperium and was believed to affected more than 950 million Android devices. A second set of vulnerabilities in Stagefright, patched last month affected more than 1 billion devices. Stagefright 2.0, as it was labeled, posed similar risks as the first Stagefright bugs, which were exploited via specially crafted MMS messages that were at the time automatically processed by Stagefright. The Stagefright 2.0 flaws are exploitable instead via the mobile browser, for example, where a victim is sent a link to a URL hosting the exploit, or via a man-in-the-middle attack. Like the first set of attacks, Stagefright 2.0 exploits are a way onto the phone. Stagefright is granted some system-level privileges, giving the attacker the opportunity to elevate their privileges with additional attacks in order to control the device. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839666cefc42b00294d05" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Firefox 36 Arrives With Patches For Three Critical Flaws", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/firefox-36-arrives-with-patches-for-three-critical-flaws/111284/", "Date" : "February 26, 2015 , 9:41 am", "Article" : "Mozilla has patched 16 security vulnerabilities in Firefox, including three critical flaws in the browser. One of the critical vulnerabilities patched with the release of Firefox 36 is a buffer overflow in the libstagefright library that can be exploitable under some circumstances. u201cSecurity researcher Pantrombka reported a buffer overflow in the libstagefright library during video playback when certain invalid MP4 video files led to the allocation of a buffer that was too small for the content. This led to a potentially exploitable crash,u201d the Mozilla advisory says. Among the other critical bugs patched in this release is a use-after-free vulnerability in the indexdDB component of the browser. u201cSecurity researcher Paul Bandha used the used the Address Sanitizer tool to discover a use-after-free vulnerability when running specific web content with IndexedDB to create an index. This leads to a potentially exploitable crash,u201d Mozilla said in its advisory. Firefox 36 also includes patches for a variety of memory safety vulnerabilities. The new release also includes fixes for a number of high-risk vulnerabilities, one of which affects the Mozilla updater function in the browser. The bug could let an attacker load malicious files. u201cSecurity researcher Holger Fuhrmannek reported that when the Mozilla updater is run directly, the updater will load binary DLL format files from the local working directory or from the Windows temporary directories. This occurs when it is run without the Mozilla Maintenance Service on Windows systems. This allowed for possibly malicious DLL files to execute with elevated privileges if a user agrees when a User Account Control (UAC) prompt from Windows is displayed,u201d the advisory says. The new browser also includes fixes for a handful of other medium and low-risk security bugs. " }n"
%%%Sandworm2014——2017
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35978c6cefc42d78dc5bc7" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Files Encrypted by Bad Rabbit Recoverable Without Paying Ransom", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/files-encrypted-bad-rabbit-recoverable-without-paying-ransom", "Date" : "October 27, 2017", "Article" : "Some users may be able to recover the files encrypted by the Bad Rabbit ransomware without paying the ransom, Kaspersky researchers discovered after analyzing the malwareu2019s encryption functionality. Once it infects a device, Bad Rabbit looks for certain file types and encrypts them. The disk is also encrypted and a ransom screen is displayed when the computer boots, preventing the victim from accessing the operating system. The disk encryption and bootloader functionality are provided by code derived from a legitimate utility named DiskCryptor. Bad Rabbit has been linked to the NotPetya attack that caused significant disruptions to many companies back in late June. However, unlike NotPetya, which experts classified as a wiper due to the fact that victims could not recover their files even if they paid the ransom, files encrypted by Bad Rabbit can be recovered with the right decryption key. While the encryption mechanisms used by the attackers, AES-128-CBC and RSA-2048, cannot be cracked, Kaspersky experts have identified some methods that may allow some victims to decrypt their disk and recover files. When an infected computer boots up, users are informed that their files have been encrypted and they are instructed to make a payment in order to obtain the password needed for decryption. The same screen also allows victims who have already obtained a password to enter it and boot their system. Kaspersky researchers discovered that the password needed to boot the system is not wiped from memory after itu2019s generated, giving users the opportunity to extract it before the process that creates the password, dispci.exe, is terminated. Entering this password boots the system and decrypts the disk, the security firm told SecurityWeek, but there is only a u201cslim chanceu201d that victims will actually be able to extract the password.  As for recovering files, experts noticed that Bad Rabbit does not delete shadow copies, which are backups made by Windows. If users enabled this backup functionality before the files were encrypted and the malwareu2019s full disk encryption functionality failed for some reason or the disk is decrypted using the aforementioned method, the data can be restored via Windows or third-party utilities. Kaspersky has also confirmed that Bad Rabbit does in fact use an NSA-linked exploit to spread; earlier reports claimed no exploits had been observed. The malware uses EternalRomance, which NotPetya also leveraged. Based on the numerous similarities, the Bad Rabbit attack is believed to have been carried out by the same threat group that launched the NotPetya campaign, namely the Russia-linked threat actor known as BlackEnergy, TeleBots and Sandworm Team. Some are not convinced due to the fact that a majority of the victims were in Russia. Others pointed out, however, that the main target may have been Ukraine, where several major organizations were hit. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3599e46cefc42d78dc60f2" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "ICS-CERT Warns Attackers May be Targeting Patched SIMATIC Wincc Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/ics-cert-warns-attackers-may-be-targeting-patched-simatic-wincc-vulnerability", "Date" : "December 11, 2014", "Article" : "ICS-CERT has updated an advisory about ongoing attacks against critical infrastructure companies with new information about what attackers are targeting.u00a0  ICS-CERT (Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team) first warned about the campaign, which has been ongoing since at least 2011, back in October. According to ICS-CERT, multiple companies have identified a variant of the BlackEnergy malware on Internet-connected human-machine interfaces (HMIs).  "While ICS-CERT lacks definitive information on how WinCC systems are being compromised by BlackEnergy, there are indications that one of the vulnerabilities fixed with the latest update for SIMATIC WinCC may have been exploited by the BlackEnergy malware," according to the advisory. "ICS-CERT strongly encourages users of WinCC, TIA Portal, and PCS7 to update their software to the most recent version as soon as possible." In addition, ICS-CERT noted that a number of the victims associated with this campaign were running the Advantech/BroadWin WebAccess software with a direct Internet connection. Though that has not been identified by ICS-CERT as the initial infection vector for victims running this platform, it is believed to be getting targeted.   The malware at the center of this campaign - BlackEnergy - has become increasingly notorious of late. It has been linked to a number of attacks, including the activities of the Sandworm Team reported earlier this year.   "ICS-CERT has determined that users of HMI products from various vendors have been targeted in this campaign, including GE Cimplicity, Advantech/Broadwin WebAccess, and Siemens WinCC," according to the alert. "It is currently unknown whether other vendoru2019s products have also been targeted. ICSu2011CERT is working with the involved vendors to evaluate this activity and also notify their users of the linkages to this campaign."   "At this time, ICS-CERT has not identified any attempts to damage, modify, or otherwise disrupt the victim systemsu2019 control processes," the advisory continued. "ICS-CERT has not been able to verify if the intruders expanded access beyond the compromised HMI into the remainder of the underlying control system. However, typical malware deployments have included modules that search out any network-connected file shares and removable media for additional lateral movement within the affected environment. The malware is highly modular and not all functionality is deployed to all victims." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a216cefc42d78dc618e" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "XZERES Fixes CSRF Vulnerability in Small Wind Turbine", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/xzeres-fixes-csrf-vulnerability-small-wind-turbine", "Date" : "June 08, 2015", "Article" : "ICS-CERT has published an advisory detailing a cross-site request forgery (CSRF) vulnerability found in 442SR wind turbines produced by Wilsonville, OR-based wind energy solutions provider XZERES Wind. The XZERES 442SR small wind turbine, which according to the manufacturer has the most efficient rotor design in the small wind industry, is deployed in the energy sector across the world.  According to ICS-CERT, independent security researcher Maxim Rupp discovered that the productu2019s web-based interface is plagued by a CSRF vulnerability (CVE-2015-3950) that allows a remote attacker to hijack user sessions. The turbine generator operating system accepts both POST and GET requests for data input. Because user input is not sanitized, a remote attacker can use a GET request to retrieve the user ID from the browser and change the default user ID. This allows the attacker to conduct actions in the context of the default user, which has administrator privileges on the system. u201cThis exploit can cause a loss of power for all attached systems,u201d reads ICS-CERTu2019s security advisory for CVE-2015-3950. While the vulnerability cannot be exploited without user interaction, ICS-CERT has pointed out that a working exploit can be easily created by modifying publicly available code. XZERES has released a patch to address the flaw. Organizations that need assistance in applying the patch can contact XZERES at 1-877-404-9438 (option 4). This isnu2019t the first CSRF vulnerability identified by Rupp in small wind turbines from XZERES. Back in March, ICS-CERT revealed that the researcher had identified a vulnerability that can be exploited by a remote attacker to change the default user password. The energy sector accounted for nearly one third of the cyber security incidents reported in 2014 to ICS-CERT. This sector has been targeted by advanced persistent threat groups such as Energetic Bear and Sandworm. Authorities in the United States are aware that vulnerable ICS can pose a serious threat. In order to help ICS operators secure their systems, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) recently released an update to its guide on ICS cyber security. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a296cefc42d78dc61a3" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Siemens Fixes Critical Vulnerabilities in WinCC SCADA Products", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/siemens-fixes-critical-vulnerabilities-wincc-scada-products", "Date" : "November 21, 2014", "Article" : "Vulnerabilities Expose SCADA Systems to Remote Attacks Siemens has released software updates to address two critical vulnerabilities in its SIMATIC WinCC supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system, one of which could be exploited remotely by an unauthenticated attacker. The German industrial products giant has also released software updates for WinCC, PCS 7 and TIA Portal products, and said that it is working on additional updates for other versions of the affected products.  SIMATIC WinCC is used to monitor and control physical processes involved in industry and infrastructure, and is often used in industries such as oil and gas, chemical, food and beverage, water and wastewater. PCS 7 is a distributed control system (DCS) integrating SIMATIC WinCC, and TIA Portal is the companyu2019s engineering software used for SIMATIC products.  The first vulnerability (CVE-2014-8551) within WinCC is rated as critical, with a CVSS Base Score or 10.0. The flaw could allow remote code execution for unauthenticated users if specially crafted packets are sent to the WinCC server, according to theu00a0security advisory from Siemens ProductCERT published Nov. 21. The second vulnerability (CVE-2014-8552), also a component within WinCC, could allow an unauthenticated attacker to extract arbitrary files from the WinCC server by sending specially crafted packets to the server. However, in order to exploit this flaw, the attacker must have network access to the affected system, Siemens said.  While Siemens prepares additional software updates, the companyu2019s ProductCERT team suggests that customers mitigate the risk of their systems by implementing the following steps:   u2022tAlways run WinCC server and engineering stations within a trusted network  u2022tEnsure that the WinCC server and the engineering stations communicate via encrypted channels only (e.g. activate feature u201cEncrypted Communicationsu201d in WinCC V7.3 (PCS 7 V8.1), or establish a VPN tunnel)  u2022tRestrict access to the WinCC server to trusted entities  u2022tApply up-to-date application whitelisting software and virus scanners   Late last month, ICS-CERT warned of an ongoing attack campaign targeting industrial control systems, including WinCC products, that has been ongoing since at least 2011. The campaign is using a variant ofthe BlackEnergy malware. BlackEnergy has been linked to a number of attacks, including the recently disclosed activities of the Sandworm Team.  "ICS-CERT has determined that users of HMI products from various vendors have been targeted in this campaign, including GE Cimplicity, Advantech/Broadwin WebAccess, and Siemens WinCC," according to the advisory. "It is currently unknown whether other vendoru2019s products have also been targeted." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a4f6cefc42d78dc620c" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Microsoft Issues 14 Security Updates for Patch Tuesday", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/microsoft-issues-14-security-updates-patch-tuesday", "Date" : "November 11, 2014", "Article" : "Microsoft released 14 security bulletins today as part of Patch Tuesday, including a critical update for Internet Explorer. The total number of bulletins was two short of what the company planned to release this month. Nevertheless, IT administrators should expect to have their plates full. Of the 14 updates, four are rated 'critical'. The most serious of the updates impact Windows and Internet Explorer. In addition to the IE bulletin, the other 'critical' updates address vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows Object Linking and Embedding (OLE), XML Core Services and the Microsoft Secure Channel (Schannel). "The top patching priority is definitely going to be MS14-064, which is under active exploitation in the wild and may be related, at least superficially, to last monthu2019s Sandworm attack, which also worked through a vulnerability in OLE," said Ross Barrett, senior manager of security engineering at Rapid7. The Schannel vulnerability is particularly interesting, said Jon Rudolph, senior software engineer atu00a0Core Security. "Specially-crafted packets can allow a remote code execution, and this vulnerability is accurately labeled critical," he explained. "The reason this is interesting is when there is a flaw in a channel for sending secure information, the downsteam effects of losing the confidentiality, integrity or availability of that information can be catastrophic, and difficult to predict at first. When I see abuse of an OS by using the security controls designed to protect it, I am reminded once again that getting security right is a hard task. When there are flaws in your security controls, things can go downhill fast for a secure infrastructure." "There are a handful of remote code execution vulnerabilities which are addressed by these patches, some of which affect users of Internet Explorer, or which can be taken advantage of through opening malicious PowerPoint files," Rudolph said. "These patches are critical across Windows versions, chances are no matter who you are, youu2019re going to want to patch against these kinds of attacks," he added. Each of the critical bulletins addresses remote code execution issues. The eight bulletins rated 'important' however have a mix of remote code execution and privilege escalation issues as well a security feature bypass affecting Remote Desktop Protocol and an information disclosure vulnerability impacting Windows. The remaining two bulletins are classified as 'moderate' and impact Microsoft Office and Windows.u00a0 Microsoft did not offer a timeline as to when the two security bulletins left out of this month's releases would be issued.u00a0 Adobe also released security updates for Flash Player on Tuesday, fixing a total of 18 vulnerabilities, while Googleu00a0releasedu00a0a new version of Chrome which includes the update for Flash Player and fixes for other bugs.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a7a6cefc42d78dc6276" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "ICS-CERT Warns of Ongoing Attack Campaign Targeting Industrial Control Systems", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/ics-cert-warns-ongoing-attack-campaign-targeting-industrial-control-systems", "Date" : "October 29, 2014", "Article" : "ICS-CERT (Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team) has issued a warning about an ongoing attack campaign targeting industrial control systems. According to ICS-CERT, the campaign has compromised numerous industrial control systems environments and has been ongoing since at least 2011. The campaign is using a variant of the BlackEnergy malware. BlackEnergy has been linked to a number of attacks, including the recently disclosed activities of the Sandworm Team.    "ICS-CERT has determined that users of HMI products from various vendors have been targeted in this campaign, including GE Cimplicity, Advantech/Broadwin WebAccess, and Siemens WinCC," according to the advisory. "It is currently unknown whether other vendoru2019s products have also been targeted." "ICSu2011CERT is working with the involved vendors to evaluate this activity and also notify their users of the linkages to this campaign," the advisory states.    So far, the ICS-CERT team has not identified any attempts to damage victims' control processes, and been unable to verify if the intruders have expanded access beyond the compromised human-machine interface (HMI) into the remainder of the underlying control system. Still, ICS-CERT notes that the malware deployments have typically included modules that seek out any network-connected file shares and removable media in hopes of facilitating additional lateral movement within the environment.  Not all of the malware's functionality is deployed to all victims, the team notes.   "The attacks described in the advisory are of an extremely worrisome kind," said Francis Cianfrocca, CEO of Bayshore Networks, in an email. "It's commonplace for industrial control-system software to be deployed on Windows machines (servers and workstations), and this won't change soon because these software products are very slow to evolve. Typically, workstations that run control software are dual-homed (one leg in the machine network and one on the IT side), but without very careful controls, even this defense model is easily defeated by advanced malware." The initial infection vector for systems running GE's Cimplicity HMI with a direct connection to the Internet appears to be CVE-2014-0751. The ICS-CERT team noted that the attackers behind the campaign share the same command and control infrastructure as the Sandworm team. Ken Westin, security analyst for Tripwire, said part of the problem is the number of ICS devices accessible over the Internet.   "Anyone can run scans and identify numerous ICS systems that are accessible via the Internet," he said. "Multiple vendors have been targeted with this malware including GE Cimplicity, Advantech Broadwin WebAccess and possibly Siemens WinCC. Although the compromised systems have not caused damage at this point, this attack could potentially be gathering information about vulnerabilities for use in a larger scale or more sophisticated attack."   The ICS-CERT team has analyzed two different .cim files used in this campaign: devlist.cim and config.bak. Both files use scripts that ultimately install the BlackEnergy malware.   To address the situation, ICS-CERT has produced a YARA signature to help identify if the malware files are present on a given system. YARA is a pattern-matching tool used by security researchers and companies to identify malware. ICS-CERT asks organizations report any positive or suspected findings to the team for further analysis and correlation.   The YARA signature is available at: /sites/default/files/file_attach/ICS-ALERT-14-281-01.yara. *This story was updated with additional information. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359a8c6cefc42d78dc62a4" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Windows Zero-Day Exploited in Targeted Attacks Through PowerPoint", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/windows-zero-day-exploited-targeted-attacks-through-powerpoint", "Date" : "October 22, 2014", "Article" : "Microsoft has become aware of targeted cyberattacks leveraging a new vulnerability (CVE-2014-6352) that affects most supported Windows releases, according to an advisory company published by the company on Tuesday. According to Microsoft, the zero-day impacts Windows Vista, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2008 R2, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 8.1, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows RT and Windows RT 8.1. The only supported version of the operating system that's not affected is Windows Server 2003, for which end of life is July 14, 2015. The flaw, which exists in the OLE (Object Linking and Embedding) technology, can be exploited for remote code execution if the attacker can convince the targeted user to open a specially crafted Microsoft Office file containing an OLE object. OLE is a proprietary technology developed by Microsoft designed to allow applications to share data and functionality. For example, OLE objects can be used to embed an Excel spreadsheet into a Word document.  "An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could gain the same user rights as the current user. If the current user is logged on with administrative user rights, an attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could take complete control of an affected system. An attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full user rights," Microsoft said in its advisory. Microsoft says it's aware of limited, targeted attacks in which the vulnerability is exploited through PowerPoint presentations.  The company advises its users to apply a series of workarounds until a permanent patch is made available through the monthly security updates process or an out-of-cycle update. One of the workarounds recommended by Microsoft is an automated "Fix It" solution (OLE packager Shim Workaround) which prevents exploitation of the zero-day flaw. Microsoft also advises users to ensure that the User Account Control (UAC) feature is enabled since it displays a consent prompt or an elevation prompt before files are run. In the attacks observed by the company, the UAC, which is enabled by default on Windows releases starting with Vista, prompted users before the files containing the exploit were executed.  Windows users are also told to avoid opening PowerPoint or other types of files received from untrusted sources.  "In a web-based attack scenario, an attacker could host a website that contains a webpage that contains a specially crafted Office file that is used to attempt to exploit this vulnerability. In all cases, however, an attacker would have no way to force users to visit these websites. Instead, an attacker would have to convince users to visit the website, typically by getting them to click a link in an email message or Instant Messenger message that takes users to the attacker's website," Microsoft clarified. Protection against these attacks is also provided by the Attack Surface Reduction feature included in Microsoft's Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit (EMET) 5.0. CVE-2014-6352 is not the only Microsoft Windows zero-day exploited in targeted attacks over the past period. Earlier this month, iSIGHT Partners reported seeing attacks by a group called the "Sandworm Team," which had been leveraging weaponized PowerPoint documents in attacks against high-profile targets. The PowerPoint files were designed to exploit a different zero-day (CVE-2014-4114) affecting all supported versions of Windows. Microsoft patched the vulnerability this month with the MS14-060 security bulletin. Trend Micro later determined that the Sandworm Team leveraged the exploit to target SCADA systems. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359aaa6cefc42d78dc62ee" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Multiple Patch Tuesday Vulnerabilities Under Attack", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/multiple-patch-tuesday-vulnerabilities-under-attack", "Date" : "October 14, 2014", "Article" : "It is a busy day in the world of Microsoft security.  Tucked within the security bulletins released today are a number of vulnerabilities that have come under attack. Two of them are zero-days affecting the Windows kernel - CVE-2014-4148 and CVE-2014-4113 - and are fixed in MS14-058.   "In the case of CVE-2014-4148, the attackers exploited a vulnerability in the Microsoft Windows TrueType Font (TTF) processing subsystem, using a Microsoft Office document to embed and deliver a malicious TTF to an internal organization," according to researchers at FireEye, who found the bug. "Sinceu00a0the embedded TTF is processed in kernel-u00adu2010mode,u00a0successful exploitationu00a0granted theu00a0attackersu00a0kernel-u00adu2010mode access. Though the TTF is delivered in a Microsoft Office document,u00a0theu00a0vulnerability does not resideu00a0within Microsoft Office."   CVE-2014-4148 impacts both 32-u00adbit andu00a064u00adu2010bit Windows operatingu00a0systems, though the attacks only targeted 32-bit systems. The malware contained within the exploit has specific functions adapted to the following operating system platforms: Windows 8.1/Windows Server 2012 R2; Windows 8/Windows Server 2012; Windows 7/Windows Server 2008 R2 (Service Pack 0 and 1); and Windows XP Service Pack.   "Since TTF exploits target the underlying operating system, the vulnerability can be exploited through multiple attack vectors, including web pages," explained researchers with FireEye. "In the past, exploit it authors have converted a similar exploit (CVE-2011-3402) for us in browser-based attacks."   In this case, the TTF exploit is packaged within a Microsoft Office file.   CVE-u00ad2014-u00ad4113 meanwhile can be used against Microsoft Windows 7, Vista, XP, Windows 2000, Windows Server 2003/R2 and Windows Server 2008/R2 to escalate privileges locally. The vulnerability cannot be used on its own to compromise a customer's security; instead, an attacker would first need to gain access to a remote system running any of the aforementioned operating systems so they could execute code within the context of the Windows kernel, FireEye explained.   An investigation by FireEye has uncovered evidence that attackers have likely used variations of these exploits for a while. Windows 8 and Windows Server 2012 and later are not susceptible to the issue. u00a0   "We have no evidence of these exploits being used by the same actors. Instead, we have only observed each exploit being used separately, in unrelated cases," according to FireEye.   The revelations come as details have emerged about hackers using CVE-2014-4114 [MS14-60] to spy on NATO, the European Union, Ukraine and private energy and telecommunications companies. According to iSight Partners, the group began five years ago. The campaign was discovered to be targeting CVE-2014-4114 in August, and the group's methods have evolved over time.   "We are attributing this particular cyber-espionage campaign to au2026team that iSIGHT has dubbed u2018Sandworm Teamu2019 based on its use of encoded references to the classic science fiction series Dune in command and control URLs and various malware samples," according to the company. "The team has been previously referred to as [Quedagh] by F-Secure, which detailed elements of this campaign in 2014 but only captured a small component of the activities and failed to detail the use of the zero-day vulnerability."   According to iSight Partners, the vulnerability exists because Windows allows the OLE packager (packager .dll) to download and execute INF files. In the case of the observed exploit, specifically when handling Microsoft PowerPoint files, the packagers allows a Package OLE object to reference arbitrary external files, such as INF files, from untrusted sources, iSight explained in an advisory. *This story was updated to clarify when the Sandworm Team was formed. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b359aaf6cefc42d78dc62fb" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Russia-linked Hackers Exploited Windows Zero-day to Spy on NATO, EU, Others", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/russian-hackers-exploited-windows-zero-day-spy-nato-eu-other-high-profile-targets", "Date" : "October 14, 2014", "Article" : "Attackers exploited a zero-day vulnerability in Windows to spy on NATO, the European Union, Poland, Ukraine, private energy organizations, and European telecommunications companies, according to cyber-intelligence firm iSight Partners.  Microsoft is expected to patch the flaw today as part of October's Patch Tuesday release. The espionage campaign began five years ago and is still in progress, iSight said in its advisory. It has evolved several times over the years to adopt new attack methods, and only began targeting the Windows zero-day with malicious PowerPoint files in August, according to the company. iSight analysts have named the operation "Sandworm Team" because the attackers included several references to Frank Herbert's Dune in the code.  "It is critical to note that visibility is limited and that there is a potential for broader targeting from this group (and potentially other threat actors) using this zero-day," iSight warned. Sandworm targeted victims with malicious PowerPoint documents which, when opened, triggered the zero-day bug in all supported versions of Windows, including Windows Vista, 7, or 8, Windows Server 2008 and 2012, iSight said. The exploit installed another executable file onto the infected machine to open a backdoor, thus giving remote access to attackers. The zero-day itself may not be as scary as it sounds, according to one security expert. u201cPeople shouldnu2019t panic about Sandworm," Ross Barrett, senior manager of security engineering at Rapid7, said over email. Even though the vulnerability is present in all supported operating systems, it is a local file format exploit, which are fairly common and routinely patched by Microsoft. While the bug can give attackers complete control of the compromised system, attackers need to launch a multi-stage attack in order to exploit this flaw. "The steps required to get there limit the impact of this vulnerability," he said. While Microsoft has patched the flaw, iSight also provided some workarounds, such as disabling the WebClient Service to prevent Web Disributed Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV) requests from being transmitted, blocking TCP ports 139 and 445, and preventing executables from being launched by setup .inf files.  It's not known at this point what kind of information the attackers were after. Considering the list of victims, it's likely the attackers were looking for information regarding the Ukraine crisis, diplomatic communications, and sensitive documents related to the energy and telecomm industries. Sandworm also attempts to steal SSL keys and code-signing certificates, which may be used in future attacks.  iSight believes the attackers are Russian because analysts found Russian-language files on the command server used by Sandworm. The list of victims was another clue, since they are all strategically related to the Ukrainian conflict. While researchers haven't found technical indicators linking the attackers to the Russian government, the fact that the campaign focused on cyber-espionage and not cybercrime meant nation-state involvement was highly likely, according to the company. It's also expensive and time-consuming to look for security flaws in the operating system, making it quite possible the group had nation-state funding and support. For example, the group targeted NATO computers with emails with a malicious document claiming to have information on European diplomacy back in December. An American academic with a focus on Ukraine and several Ukrainian regional government officials received spear-phishing messages just before a NATO summit over the summer. The malicious messages claimed to have information gathered by Ukrainian security services on Russian sympathizers, such as a list of pro-Russian extremists, iSight said. Itu2019s interesting that iSight found the zero-day flaw "being used in Russian cyber espionage attacks in the wild, targeting NATO, the European Union, and the telecommunications and energy sectors, but thatu2019s probably the most interesting aspect of it," Barrett said. Previous Sandworm attacks exploited older vulnerabilities to install the BlackEnergy exploit kit. BlackEnergy was used to create botnets with launched distributed denial-of-serve attacks against computers in Georgia during the country's conflict with Russia back in 2008. Originally a DDoS tool, BlackEnergy evolved to steal banking credentials and other information. Sandworm was previously identified by F-Secure researchers in a whitepaper on a group they called Quedach released last month. "In the summer of 2014, we noted that certain samples of BlackEnergy malware began targeting Ukranian government organizations for information harvesting," F-Secure researchers wrote at the time. n iSight is sharing the detailed report with its customers but warned that malware and indicator data could be potentially misused to create "copycat exploits." *Updated [2] with additional information, commentary and reactions. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38367b6cefc42b00294865" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Triton Malware Targets Industrial Control Systems in Middle East", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/triton-malware-targets-industrial-control-systems-in-middle-east/129182/", "Date" : "December 15, 2017 , 1:30 pm", "Article" : "Researchers found malware called Triton on the industrial control systems of a company located in the Middle East. Attackers planted Triton, also called Trisis, with the intent of carrying out a u201chigh-impact attacku201d against an unnamed company with the goal of causing physical damage, researchers said. FireEyeu2019s Mandiant threat research team revealed the existence of the malware on Thursday. They said adversaries behind Triton are targeting Triconex Safety Instrumented System controllers sold by Schneider Electric. Researchers are comparing Tritonu2019s targeting of industrial control systems to malware used in watershed attacks Stuxnet and Industroyer (or Crashoverride). u201cIt follows Stuxnet which was used against Iran in 2010 and Industroyer which we believe was deployed by Sandworm Team against Ukraine in 2016,u201d researchers said in a blog post outlining their research. u201cTriton is consistent with these attacks, in that it could prevent safety mechanisms from executing their intended function, resulting in a physical consequence.u201d On Wednesday, Schneider Electric warned its customers of Triton (PDF). According to researchers at Dragos, credited for discovering the malware last month, Triton targets the Triconex Safety Instrumented System (SIS) by u201cenabling the replacement of logic in final control elements.u201d u201cIt is not currently known what exactly the safety implications of Trisis would be. Logic changes on the final control element implies that there could be risk to the safety as set points could be changed for when the safety system would or would not take control of the process in an unsafe condition,u201d Dragos stated in a report detailing the malware. According to FireEye, Tritonu00a0masquerades as a legitimate Triconex Trilog application used for reviewing system logs.u00a0 u201cThe malware was delivered as a Py2EXE compiled python script dependent on a zip file containing standard Python libraries, open source libraries, as well as the attacker-developed Triconex attack framework for interacting with the Triconex controllers,u201d researchers wrote. Triton attack scenarios include using the malware to shut down the Triconex SIS process that is in a safe state. The impact would be disruption of plant operations and service downtime. Attackers could also reprogram the SIS controller not to shut down in an unsafe environment, creating risks to human safety or damage to equipment, according Mandiant researchers. Each of the attack scenarios assume an adversary already has a foothold on targeted systems. Lastly, attackers could manipulate Triconexu2019s distributed control system to create unsafe conditions at the same time program SIS to allow the unsafe state resulting in possible equipment failure or human harm. u201cFireEyeu00a0has not connected this activity to any actor we currently track; however, we assess with moderate confidence that the actor is sponsored by a nation state,u201d researchers said.u00a0u201cWe assess with moderate confidence that the attacker was developing the capability to cause physical damage and inadvertently shutdown operations,u201d Mandiant researchers said. Dragos said Triton as having a u201cgame-changingu201d impact on industrial control systems and specifically safety systems. u201cTargeting SIS equipment specifically represents a dangerous evolution within ICS computer network attacks. Potential impacts include equipment damage, system downtime, and potentially loss of life. Given these implications, it is important to ensure nuance in how the industry responds and communicates about this attack,u201d Dragos researchers said. Schneider offers a number of detection and mitigation measures in its advisoryu00a0that range from making sureu00a0Triconexu00a0 systems are deployed on isolated networks and that USB drives, CDs or laptops connecting to that network should be scanned for malware ahead of time. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38377d6cefc42b002949c1" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "APT Group u2018Patchworku2019 Cuts-and-Pastes a Potent Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/apt-group-patchwork-cuts-and-pastes-a-potent-attack/119081/", "Date" : "July 7, 2016 , 7:00 am", "Article" : "An advanced persistent threat tied to Southeast Asia and the South China Sea is targeting governments and entities around the world including the U.S. The attacks are unique, according to security experts, because the perpetrators are relying nearly 100 percent on computer code copied-and-pasted from sources on the web. Cymmetria Research, which discovered the APT and today released a report on the attacks, calls those responsible for the attacks Patchwork because the group has piece-mealed computer code from sources such as open-source repositoryu00a0GitHub, the dark web and hidden criminal forums. u201cThose behind these attacks have copied, pasted and pieced together everything from penetration tools, malware and post-intrusion attack tools,u201d said Gadi Evron, founder and CEO of Cymmetria Research. u201cThis group shows how low the bar has been moved for a successful APT attack to take flight,u201d Evron said. u201cWe are impressed that these attacks were able to infiltrate high-end organizations given the apparent low technical aptitude of the attackers,u201d he said. Patchwork attackers are believed to be of Indian origin and gathering intelligence from influential parties tied to Southeast Asia and the South China Sea. Threat actors, Cymmetria said, were active during the Indian time zone. However, the reportu2019s authors point out, itu2019s not possible to say conclusively that the attacks were originating in India. The report added, while it also canu2019t be said definitively, the attacks may be related to similar APT Hangover/Appin. u201cPatchwork is a highly successful APT operation, infecting approximately 2,500 high-value targets worldwide,u201d the report states. Attacks began in the December timeframe. Itu2019s unclear as to why the attackers relied on second-hand computer code. However, what might appear amateurish has been highly effective when it came to the attackeru2019s second stage toolsets u2013 meant for persistence and to avoid detection. According to Cymmetria the attacks targetu00a0entities in the United States as well as Europe, the Middle East, South Asia and the Asia and Pacific regions. u201cIt would be more accurate to say that targets were chosen worldwide with a focus on personnel working on military and political assignments u2013 specifically, but not limited to, intelligence requirements concentrating on Southeast Asia and the South China Sea. Many of the targets were governments and government related organizations,u201d according to the report. Evron said most infections on targeted systems were initiated via spear phishing campaigns that included emails that contained content related to Southeast Asia and the South China Sea. In one incident, Patchwork attackers enticed email recipients to download a presentation titled u201cIs Chinau2019s assertiveness in the South China Sea likely to affect Australiau2019s national interest over the next ten years?u201d In that incident, the presentation, if opened, contained the Sandworm vulnerability (CVE-2014-4114), which infects unpatched versions of Microsoft Office PowerPoint 2003 and 2007. Targeted systems were also infected with sysvolinfo.exe (the first stage payload of the APT) and 7zip.exe (second stage malware), according to the report. During the course of Cymmetriau2019s investigation, it managed to access to one of Patchworku2019s command and control servers where it found a stash of infected Microsoft PowerPoint files used in spear phishing attacks along with additional malicious code packages. u201cMost of the spear phishing file content was directly related to China-related subjects, or pornographic in nature,u201d according to the report. As part of the investigation, Cymmetria was able to pull back the curtain on some of the second stage tools used by attackers and identify how intruders moved laterally through the network. Those tools included a compiled AutoIt script to escalate privileges by exploiting the computeru2019s user account control system along with PowerSploit, Meterpreter and the well-known Metasploit framework. The exfiltration of data to a command and control server, according to Cymmetria, was once again carried out using a second stage payload built from code taken from various online forums and resources, according to the report. u201cUnlike other APT threat actors, India seems to be a relatively quiet locale for cyber espionage activity. The scope and scale of this operation are quite surprising. This suggests that additional geopolitical powers are actively developing offensive cyber capabilities whilst simultaneously making attempts to maximize return on investment by keeping development costs to a minimum,u201d wrote the report authors. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b38396a6cefc42b00294d0a" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Fixes for IE, Flash Player in October Patch Tuesday Release", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/fixes-for-ie-flash-player-in-october-patch-tuesday-release/108838/", "Date" : "October 14, 2014 , 3:02 pm", "Article" : "u00a0Microsoft and Adobe issued their monthly patch Tuesday releases today, and Microsoft posted eight bulletins, three of which are considered critical including the now-monthly cumulative Internet Explorer update, addressing 24 vulnerabilities in various products. Adobe has fixes for three vulnerabilities in both its Flash Player and ColdFusion lines. The Microsoft patches, which were plentiful despite last monthu2019s announcement that the company was shuttering its Trustworthy Computing Group, resolve vulnerabilities in Windows, Internet Explorer, the .NET Framework, Developer Tools, Office, Office Services and Web Apps. Patching priority should be given to MS14-058, a vulnerability in kernel mode driver that could enable remote code execution, according to Russ Ernst of Lumension. MS14-058 actually resolves two privately reported bugs, the more serious of which could give an attacker the ability to remotely execute code if a user opened a specially crafted document or visited an untrusted website containing embedded TrueType fonts. Ernst notes that u201cthis is under active attack and is applicable to all shipping versions of Windows, including the Server Core installations of Windows Server 2008 and Windows Server 2012, so it should be patched quickly.u201d Second priority, Ernst says, is the cumulative Internet Explorer update, which resolves 14 privately reported vulnerabilities, the most severe of which could be exploited to execute code remotely if the user opens a specially crafted webpage with Internet Explorer. u201cThird on your priority list is the final critical bulletin this month, MS14-057. It covers vulnerabilities in the .NET framework that could allow a remote code execution,u201d Ernst claims. u201cThe vulnerabilities addressed in this bulletin were privately disclosed and there are no known active attacks.u201d The remaining bulletins from Microsoft u2013 all important rated u2013 consist of a vulnerability in ASP.net MVC that could allow for an attacker to bypass security features, a remote code execution bug in Windows OLEu2013which is the zero day used by the Sandworm APT teamu2013another remote code execution issue in Microsoft Word and Office Web Apps, a privilege escalation problem in Message Queuing Service and another privilege escalation issue in FAT32 disk partition driver. On to Adobe: This patch Tuesday is primarily a Flash Player affair with security updates for Adobe Flash Player for Windows, Macintosh and Linux, which seal off holes that could potentially have given attackers the capacity to take control of the affected system. For that reason, four of the nine bugs addressed by the three CVEs here received Adobe highest priority rating. So, users of Flash Player desktop runtime for Windows and Mac should update to version 15.0.0.189 immediately; users of the Flash Player Extended Support Release should update to version 13.0.0.250; and Flash Player installed with Google Chrome, Internet Explorer 10 and Internet Explorer 11 will be automatically updated to the current versions. The remaining bugs are not nearly as critical, but Adobe is still urging users of Flash Player for Linux to update to version 11.2.202.411; users of the AIR desktop runtime should update to version 15.0.0.293; users of the AIR SDK and AIR SDK & Compiler should update to version 15.0.0.302; and users of AIR for Android should update to Adobe AIR 15.0.0.293. Adobe gives credit to Ian Beer of Google Project Zero for CVE-2014-0558, Wen Guanxing from Venustech ADLAB for CVE-2014-0564 and bilou working with HPu2019s Zero Day Initiative for CVE-2014-0569. Affected products include: Adobe Flash Player 15.0.0.167 and earlier versions, 13.0.0.244 and earlier 13.x versions, 11.2.202.406 and earlier versions for Linux, Adobe AIR desktop runtime 15.0.0.249 and earlier versions as well as the AIR SDK 15.0.0.249 and earlier versions and Compiler 15.0.0.249 and earlier versions and AIR 15.0.0.252 and earlier versions for Android. The ColdFusion patches are actually hotfixes resolving a series of moderately rated permissions issues and a few cross-site scripting and cross-site request forgery vulnerabilities. The permission problems could be exploited by an unauthenticated local user to bypass Internet protocol address access control restrictions applied to ColdFusion admins. All of these patches, in versions 11 (fixed by update two), 10 (fixed by update 14), 9.0.2 (fixed by update 7), 9.0.1 (fixed by update 12) and 9.0 (fixed by update 13), are given level two severity ratings, meaning they resolve bugs in important products, but that there are currently no in-the-wild attacks. Adobe credits Craig Young of Tripwire VERT for CVE-2014-0570, Pete Freitag for CVE-2014-0571 and Aaron Foote for CVE-2014-0572. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3839726cefc42b00294d19" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Sandworm APT Team Found Using Windows Zero Day Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/sandworm-apt-team-found-using-windows-zero-day-vulnerability/108815/", "Date" : "October 14, 2014 , 6:11 am", "Article" : "UPDATEu2013A cyberespionage team, possibly based in Russia, has been using a Windows zero day vulnerability to target a variety of organizations in several countries, including the United States, Poland, Ukraine and western Europe. The vulnerability, which will be patched today by Microsoft, is trivially exploitable and researchers say that the team behind the attacks has been using it since August to deliver the Black Energy malware. Researchers at iSIGHT Partners said that the team, which theyu2019ve dubbed Sandworm, likely has been active since 2009 and has been using the Windows vulnerability CVE-2014-4114 in conjunction with a series of other flaws in order to compromise users at government agencies, NATO, academic institutions, a telecom, defense and energy firms. The attackers use highly targeted spearphishing emails in order to lure users into opening a rigged PowerPoint file that contains the exploit code for the vulnerability. Once the exploit code fires, it then downloads the Black Energy malware and begins gathering sensitive data for exfiltration. Researchers atu00a0iSIGHT said that the malware steals sensitive documents, SSL keys and code-signing certificates, among other things. The Windows zero day affects all currently supported versions of Windows and researchers said that exploiting the bug is extremely simple. The exploit code can be loaded into any Office document and when it executes, the machine doesnu2019t crash, so the user is likely unaware of the attack. u201cIt is extremely easy to recreate. This requires a low level of technical expertise to recreate,u201du00a0said Drew Robinson, senior technical analyst atu00a0iSIGHT. The iSIGHT researchers reported the Windows vulnerability to Microsoft on Sept. 5, and also began notifying its partners and customers in various sectors about the ongoing Sandworm campaign. The spearphishing emails sent to victims are highly customized to appeal to the recipientsu2019 interests, such as a white paper targeted atu00a0attendees of the GlobeSec conference. Other documents are specifically targeted at users in countries such as Poland and Ukraine, Robinson said. The iSIGHT researchers said the company has seen about 12 organizations targeted with the Windows zero day thus far, beginning in August. In each case, the attack results in the installation of Black Energy, a venerable Trojan thatu2019s been used in a variety of attacks for several years.  u201cEverything weu2019re seeing is Black Energy,u201d Robinson said. u201cItu2019s probably in part because itu2019s a modular framework and they can do whatever they want on victimsu2019 computers.u201d Black Energy has gone through several iterations and iSIGHT said that the Sandworm attackers are using Black Energy 2, an intermediate version that includes DDoS capabilities and the ability to steal financial credentials. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab have been looking at the Black Energy 2 malware attacks for a long time, and Alex Gostev, chief security expert of the GReAT Team at Kaspersky, said identifying these attackers as Russian could be premature. u201cThe number of cyber espionage operations is growing from one month to the next. Some of these operations stand out for various reasons: sophisticated malware, skills of the cybercriminals, or the resources that enable them to continue their espionage activities for a long period or buy expensive zero-days. Any of the above may indicate that an espionage operation is connected with the work of government-controlled structures but proving this connection is extremely difficult u2013 it is the work of investigation agencies, rather than IT security companies,u201d Gostev said. u201cCybercriminals may leave traces indicating that they speak a certain language or belong to a certain ethnic group in order to mislead investigators. Moreover, people in many post-Soviet countries communicate in Russian, particularly in the information technology sector. Therefore, making conclusions about a u2018Russianu2019 trace based on this evidence is ill-advised. The files/documents that the cybercriminals are after do not provide sufficient evidence from which to draw firm conclusions either.u201d The team using the CVE-2014-4114 zero day has been active for a number of years, and iSIGHT researchers said that the attacks identified most recently have similarities to older operations and has been observed using traditional crimeware tactics in the past. The attack infrastructure the Sandworm team used in these recent attacks also overlaps in some cases with proxies used in other operations. Robinson said that the Sandworm team most likely is based in Russia, a conclusion based on the groupu2019s target selection, the use of Black Energy and technical details in the attacks. Despite some similarities, iSIGHT researchers said that the Sandworm team doesnu2019t appear to be related to the Energetic Bear attackers who have been tied to other APT campaigns recently. This article was updated on Oct. 14 to add the comments from Gostev. Image from Flickr photos of Mark Skeet.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383a736cefc42b00294e88" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Microsoft Patches OLE Zero Day, Recommends EMET 5.1 Before Applying IE Patches", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-patches-ole-zero-day-recommends-emet-5-1-before-applying-ie-patches/109302/", "Date" : "November 11, 2014 , 2:07 pm", "Article" : "A busy Microsoft Patch Tuesday arrived today with an extra sense of urgency and a complication. Among 14 bulletins, four of which are rated critical by Microsoft, is a patch for the OLE zero-day vulnerability being used in a number of targeted attacks. The zero-day is being spread via email messages containing malicious Office file attachments. The disclosure, the second against OLE since Oct. 14, was partially addressed when Microsoft issued a FixIt tool as a temporary mitigation. The OLE vulnerability affected all supported releases of Windows and allowed attackers to remotely control infected computers and execute code. The announcement followed a report by iSIGHT Partners revealing that the Sandworm APT group was exploiting another hole in OLE to attack government agencies and energy utilities. OLE, or Microsoft Windows Object Linking and Embedding, allows for embedding and linking to documents and other objects. MS14-064 addresses both vulnerabilities in question, CVE-2014-6332 and CVE-2014-6352. The first CVE occurs when Internet Explorer improperly access objects in memory, Microsoft said. The second patch modifies the way Windows validates the use of memory when OLE objects are accessed, Microsoft said. The use of Microsoftu2019s Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit (EMET) was also recommended as a temporary stopgap. Microsoft on Monday released EMET 5.1, and updated a number of the mitigations available, including the resolution of a race condition in the Mandatory ASLR mitigation and the hardening of several other mitigations against reported bypasses. The most important updates, however, have to do with compatibility with a number of ubiquitous applications, including Internet Explorer, Adobe Reader and Flash, and Mozilla Firefox. In fact, Microsoft recommends that EMET 5.0 users upgrade to 5.1 immediately before proceeding with the application of todayu2019s patches. u201cIf you are using Internet Explorer 11, either on Windows 7 or Windows 8.1, and have deployed EMET 5.0, it is particularly important to install EMET 5.1 as compatibility issues were discovered with the November Internet Explorer security update and the EAF+ mitigation,u201d Microsoft said in an advisory. u201cAlternatively, you can temporarily disable EAF+ on EMET 5.0.u201d As is becoming the norm, Microsoft also released a cumulative update for IE. Todayu2019s bulletin, MS14-065, patches 17 vulnerabilities, many of which allow remote code execution. The update is rated critical going back to IE 6. u201cThe security update addresses the vulnerabilities by modifying the way that Internet Explorer handles objects in memory, by adding additional permission validations to Internet Explorer, and by helping to ensure that affected versions of Internet Explorer properly implement the ASLR security feature,u201d Microsoft said. Microsoft also patched a remote code execution vulnerability in Microsoft Secure Channel, or Schannel, a Windows encryption security package used for SSL and TLS connections. MS14-066 patches an issue in the way Schannel processes specially crafted packets, Microsoft said. u201cThe fixes in this bulletin are the result of an internal code review at Microsoft that uncovered a number of memory corruption issues in Schannel in both server and client roles,u201d said Qualys CTO Wolfgang Kandek. u201cThe vulnerabilities are private as they were found by Microsoft internally and while Microsoft considers it technically challenging to code an exploit it is only a matter of time and resources, it is prudent to install this bulletin in your next patch cycle.u201d MS14-067 is the final bulletin ranked critical by Microsoft. The vulnerability can be exploited by a malicious website designed to invoke Microsoft XML Core Services through IE, Microsoft said. MSXML improperly parses XML content, which can then in turn corrupt the system state and enable remote code execution, Microsoft said. One bulletin rated important by Microsoft is MS14-069, which patches vulnerabilities in Microsoft Word 2007 and allows for remote code execution. Because itu2019s limited to Office 2007 and cannot be automatically exploited remotely and requires user action, Microsoft rated it important. u201cThe attack scenario here is a malicious document that the attacker prepares to exploit the vulnerability. Attackers then send the document directly or a link to their targets and use social engineering techniques, such as legitimate sounding file names and content descriptions that are likely interest the targets in question,u201d Kandek said. u201cIf you run newer versions of Microsoft Office you are not vulnerable, but users of Office 2007 should place high priority on this bulletin.u201d The remaining bulletins are all rated important by Microsoft: " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383ab46cefc42b00294ed5" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Dyreza Banker Trojan Attackers Exploiting CVE-2014-4114 Windows Flaw", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/dyreza-banker-trojan-attackers-exploiting-cve-2014-4114-windows-flaw/109071/", "Date" : "October 29, 2014 , 11:29 am", "Article" : "The Dyreza Trojan is nothing if not ambitious. The malware has been spotted doing a variety of interesting things in the last year, including bypassing SSL and targeting users of specific business apps. Now the Trojan is exploiting the recently disclosed CVE-2014-4114 vulnerability in Windows that was first used by the Sandworm attackers. Researchers at CSIS in Denmark have identified a new spam campaign carrying the Dyreza Trojan that is targeting customers of various Swiss banks. Dyreza typically is found in spam or phishing emails, often purporting to come from a bank or financial institution. The emails often will be disguised as invoices or communications from the bank and will contain a malicious attachment. u201cThe most recent campaigns observed have arrived as spam e-mails to victims with a PPT attachment that exploit a vulnerability: CVE-2014-4114, also known as u2018Windows OLE Remote Code Execution Vulnerabilityu2019. As a sidenote this exploit was first seen abused in Sandworm APT attacks against Poland and Ukraine. If the software is not updated, arbitrary code is executed and Dyreza is then downloaded to the host and run,u201d Peter Kruse of CSIS said in an analysis of the new campaign. The Sandworm attackers are an APT team that has targeted organizations in Eastern Europe and researchers at iSIGHT Partners earlier this month revealed details of the teamu2019s activities. The most interesting aspect of the Sandworm campaign is its use of the CVE-2014-4114 vulnerability, which was a zero day flaw at the time. Now other attackers have picked up the baton from the Sandworm team and are using the vulnerability for themselves. Once itu2019s installed on a compromised machine, Dyreza shows up as a fake Google Update service and runs every time the machine is started. u201cOn Microsoft Windows 7, it injects itself into explorer.exe process and hooks the browser. A slightly different approach is used on older Windows versions, on which it injects into the svchost.exe process instead,u201d Kruse said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383abc6cefc42b00294ee1" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "BlackEnergy Malware Used in Attacks Against Industrial Control Systems", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/blackenergy-malware-used-in-attacks-against-industrial-control-systems/109067/", "Date" : "October 29, 2014 , 10:25 am", "Article" : "Industrial control system operations running human-machine interface software from a handful of vendors are being targeted by a hacking campaign making use of the BlackEnergy malware. The United States Industrial Control System Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT) published an advisory on Tuesday warning about malware found at a number of companies running Internet-connected HMI software. HMI software provides a visualization of industrial control and manufacturing processes. These interfaces communicate with programmable logic controllers and manage processes from a central interface, usually a Windows-based system. Those processes can include turning pumps on and off, modifyingu00a0temperature control and other functions. The ICS-CERT alert identified three HMI products in harmu2019s way: GE Cimplicity; Advantech/Broadwin WebAccess; and Siemens WinCC. The advisory did not rule out the possibility that the malware affects HMI products from other vendors. u201cAt this time, ICS-CERT has not identified any attempts to damage, modify, or otherwise disrupt the victim systemsu2019 control processes. ICS-CERT has not been able to verify if the intruders expanded access beyond the compromised HMI into the remainder of the underlying control system,u201d the alert said. u201cHowever, typical malware deployments have included modules that search out any network-connected file shares and removable media for additional lateral movement within the affected environment. The malware is highly modular and not all functionality is deployed to all victims.u201d Two weeks ago, researchers at iSIGHT Partners outed a Russian espionage campaign that was using BlackEnergy to exploit a since-patched Windows zero-day vulnerability (CVE-2014-4114) to steal data from government agencies, defense and energy firms, as well as NATO and telecommunications providers. The attackers, nicknamed Sandworm by iSIGHT, used malicious PowerPoint files loaded with exploit code attached to a spear phishing email to attack those organizations. Those attacks were localized to Poland, Ukraine and Western Europe, and ICS-CERT said the attacks against HMI installations are not exploiting the same vulnerability. It did find a connection between the two operations in a shared command and control infrastructure, suggesting the same centralized group is behind both campaigns. Attacks against GE Cimplicity HMI deployments have been ongoing since January 2012, ICS-CERT said, adding that the vulnerability is CVE-2014-0751 and was disclosed in December 2013. The advisory said the attackers were able to execute a malicious Cimplicity screen file, a .cim extension, hosted on the C&C server. The .cim file contains an embedded script that executes and downloads the BlackEnergy installer CimWrapPNPS.exe that deletes itself once the malware is on the compromised system. ICS-CERT said it has fewer details on attacks against the WinCC and Advantech/Broadwin products, but in the case of WinCC, it has seen a potentially malicious file in the same folder hosting the malicious Cimplicity .cim file that mimics legitimate WinCC files. A number of indicators of compromise, including a Yara signature, were published by ICS-CERT. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383ae86cefc42b00294f18" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Attackers Exploiting Windows OLE Zero Day Vulnerability", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/attackers-exploiting-windows-ole-zero-day-vulnerability/108958/", "Date" : "October 22, 2014 , 10:40 am", "Article" : "Attackers are using a zero dayu00a0vulnerability in nearly all supported versions of Windows in a series of targeted attacks. The flaw is in the OLE technology in Windows and can be used for remote code execution is a targeted user opens a rigged Office file. Microsoft is warning customers that there is no patch available for this new vulnerability. The company has issued a FixIt tool that mitigates the known attacks on the vulnerability, but is still looking into whether a full patch will be necessary. u201cMicrosoft is aware of a vulnerability affecting all supported releases of Microsoft Windows, excluding Windows Server 2003. The vulnerability could allow remote code execution if a user opens a specially crafted Microsoft Office file that contains an OLE object. An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could gain the same user rights as the current user. Customers whose accounts are configured to have fewer user rights on the system could be less impacted than those who operate with administrative user rights. The attack requires user interaction to succeed on Windows clients with a default configuration, as User Account Control (UAC) is enabled and a consent prompt is displayed,u201d the Microsoft advisory says. The attacks that have been seen so far are using malicious PowerPoint files to exploit the OLE vulnerability. This is the second bug in the OLE packager thatu2019s surfaced in the last couple of weeks. On Oct. 14 researchers at iSIGHT Partners disclosed an ongoing series of attacks against a variety of targets, some of which involve the use of CVE-2014-4114, a similar flaw that affects OLE. The Sandworm team, an APT group, has been using that vulnerability in conjunction with others in order to compromise targets in government, energy and other industries. Microsoftu2019s regular monthly patch release came just last week, so if the company decides to push a fix for this new OLE vulnerability, it would either comes as an out-of-band patch in the next couple of weeks or not until Nov. 11. u201cUpon completion of this investigation, Microsoft will take the appropriate action to help protect our customers. This may include providing a security update through our monthly release process or providing an out-of-cycle security update, depending on customer needs,u201d the company said. In addition to the FixIt tool, Microsoft officials are suggesting that users deploy the EMET 5.0 toolkit and configure the Attack Surface Reduction option, which can mitigate the attacks on the flaw. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b383b016cefc42b00294f37" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Two Patched Zero Days Targeting Windows Kernel", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/two-patched-zero-days-targeting-windows-kernel/108860/", "Date" : "October 15, 2014 , 2:58 pm", "Article" : "After they wereu00a0patched in yesterdayu2019s round of Patch Tuesday security bulletins, security firms have begun to peel back the layers on two zero-day vulnerabilities that are being used in limited, targeted attacks against Microsoftu2019s Windows Kernel. According to FireEye, one of the firms that conducted research on both of the vulnerabilities, the flaws can lead to elevation of privilege if left unpatched. Both vulnerabilities are being used in attacks against some major corporations, the firm says. Attackers were able to exploit the first hole (CVE-2014-4148) in Windows True Type Font (TTF) by embedding a malicious TTF in a Microsoft Office file. As soon as a victim opens the malicious TTF, the font is processed in kernel mode, and the attacker can call on an embedded DLL thatu2019s really a remote access tool. The kernel-level exploit is sophisticated in the sense that it evades analysis, avoids running the shellcode multiple times and is specially customized for each targeted environment. u201cSince TTF exploits target the underlying operating system, the vulnerability can be exploited through multiple attack vectors, including web pages,u201d Dan Caselden, Matt Graebler and Lindsay Lack, a trio of researchers at FireEye, wrote in the companyu2019s blog yesterday. The vulnerability targets only 32-bit systems, but technically also impacts 64-bit systems according to the firm. The second issue (CVE-2014-4113) has apparently existed in some variation or another for a while and relies on a 32-bit exploit that can only be used in tandem with another exploit. Only once an attacker has access to a remote system, running one of the following Windows systems u2013 7, Vista, Windows 2000, Server 2003/R2, and Server 2008/R2 u2013 could they render it vulnerable to an elevation of privilege attack. Once theyu2019ve gained access to a remote system attackers can execute code within the context of the Windows Kernel. Crowdstrike, a California-based security firm, also spotted a campaign utilizing CVE-2014-4113. According to a blog entry Dmitri Alperovitch, the companyu2019s CTO, posted yesterday, over the past few months, it noticed u201csuspicious activityu201d on a 64-bit Windows Server 2008 R2 machine. The result is something the firm has dubbed u201cHurricane Panda,u201d a threat actor thatu2019s apparently emanating from China and using the vulnerability to elevate the privileges to those of the SYSTEM user, according to the firm. Since February at least, the campaign has targeted infrastructure companies with CVE-2014-4113, along with three other local privilege escalation vulnerabilities to gather intelligence, according to Alperovitch. Once theyu2019re in, the attackers upload a webshell to carry out the rest of their attack and move laterally. u201cThe actor will typically attempt to escalate privileges and use a variety of password dumping utilities to obtain legitimate credentials for use in access their intelligence objectives,u201d the blog entry reads. As FireEye acknowledged, Crowdstrike confirmed that the bug affects all 64-bit Windows variants u201cup to and including Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2.u201d Both of the issues were patched by Microsoftu2019s MS14-058 bulletin yesterday, one of three the company pushed that were given a critical severity rating and that if left unpatched could lead to remote code execution. The bugs took a backseat of sorts to the news that an APT crew nicknamed Sandworm had been using another Windows zero day, CVE-2014-4114, to leverage tainted Powerpoint documents to deliver Black Energy malware. That vulnerability, which had largely been being delivered by spearphishing emails since August, was also patched yesterday by Microsoft. " }n"
%%%Venom2015——2017
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3597cf6cefc42d78dc5c73" }, "Category" : "vulnerabilities", "Title" : "Microsoft Patches Zero-Days Exploited by Russia-Linked Hackers", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/microsoft-patches-zero-days-exploited-russia-linked-hackers", "Date" : "May 10, 2017", "Article" : "Microsoftu2019s Patch Tuesday updates for May 2017 address tens of vulnerabilities, including several zero-day flaws exploited by profit-driven cybercriminals and two notorious Russia-linked cyber espionage groups. The company has resolved more than 50 security holes affecting Windows, Internet Explorer, Edge, Office, the .NET framework, and Flash Player, for which Adobe released an update on Tuesday. A blog post published by Microsoft revealed that the company had worked with ESET and FireEye to protect customers against attacks leveraging vulnerabilities in the Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) filter in Office. Both ESET and FireEye have released reports on the attacks they have observed. FireEye has spotted attacks launched by a couple of cyber espionage groups believed to be connected to the Russian government and an unknown financially-motivated threat actor. According to the security firm, the group known as Turla, Waterbug, KRYPTON and Venomous Bear has been exploiting an Office remote code execution (RCE) vulnerability tracked as CVE-2017-0261 to deliver a custom JavaScript implant dubbed by FireEye u201cSHIRIME.u201d The same vulnerability has also been exploited by profit-driven cybercriminals to deliver a new variant of the NETWIRE malware, a threat used by multiple actors over the past years. The Turla groupu2019s attacks also leveraged CVE-2017-0001 for privilege escalation, while the cybercriminals used CVE-2016-7255 for privilege escalation. Both FireEye and ESET have observed attacks involving zero-day vulnerabilities launched by the group known as APT28, Pawn Storm, Fancy Bear, Sofacy, Sednit and Strontium. This Russia-linked group, which some believe could be behind the recent election cyberattacks in France, has leveraged an Office RCE flaw (CVE-2017-0262) and a Windows privilege escalation (CVE-2017-0263). The malware delivered in these attacks is tracked by the security firms as Seduploader and GAMEFISH. Microsoft pointed out that the Turla attacks were first spotted in March, and customers who had up-to-date systems had already been protected as CVE-2017-0001 was patched earlier that month. In April, the company also rolled out a defense-in-depth protection designed to prevent EPS attacks by disabling the EPS filter by default. The updates released by the company this month patch the EPS-related vulnerabilities in Office (CVE-2017-0261 and CVE-2017-0262) to ensure that customers who need to use EPS filters are still protected. Another zero-day patched by Microsoft on Tuesday is CVE-2017-0222, a memory corruption in Internet Explorer that can be exploited for remote code execution. No information has been shared on the attacks leveraging this security hole. The tech giant has also addressed four vulnerabilities that have been publicly disclosed. The list includes an RCE flaw in the JavaScript engines used by web browsers (CVE-2017-0229), a SmartScreen filter-related browser spoofing vulnerability (CVE-2017-0231), a privilege escalation in Edge (CVE-2017-0241), and a Mixed Content warnings bypass in Internet Explorer (CVE-2017-0064). " }n"
