%%%Stuxnet2010——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c3f36cefc41c844ab255" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Non-Targeted Malware Hits 3,000 Industrial Sites a Year: Study", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/non-targeted-malware-hits-3000-industrial-sites-year-study", "Date" : "March 21, 2017", "Article" : " Thousands of industrial facilities have their systems infected with common malware every year, and the number of attacks targeting ICS is higher than it appears, according to a study conducted by industrial cybersecurity firm Dragos. There have been an increasing number of media reports on malware infections affecting critical infrastructure and other industrial facilities, and while attention from the press can have some benefits, most experts agree that overhyped media reporting is likely to have a negative impact on ICS security. Existing public information on ICS attacks shows numbers that are either very high (e.g. over 500,000 attacks according to unspecified reports cited by Dragos), or very low (e.g. roughly 290 incidents per year reported by ICS-CERT). Dragos has set out to provide more realistic numbers on malware infections in ICS, based on information available from public sources such as VirusTotal, Google and DNS data. As part of a project it calls MIMICS (malware in modern ICS), Dragos has identified roughly 30,000 samples of malicious ICS files and installers dating back to 2003. Non-targeted infections involving viruses such as Sivis, Ramnit and Virut are the most common, followed by Trojans that can provide threat actors access to Internet-facing environments. The companyu2019s analysis showed that approximately 3,000 unique industrial sites are hit by traditional, non-targeted malware every year. The actual number of affected organizations is likely higher, but Dragos believes this can be a useful base metric for the community. These incidents may not be as severe as targeted attacks and they are unlikely to cause physical damage or pose a safety risk. However, they can cause liability issues and downtime to operations, which leads to increased financial costs, Robert M. Lee, CEO and founder of Dragos, told SecurityWeek. One example provided by the expert is the incident involving a German nuclear energy plant in Gundremmingen, whose systems got infected with Conficker and Ramnit malware. The malware did not cause any damage and it was likely picked up by accident, but the incident did trigger a shutdown of the plant as a precaution. Learn More at the 2017 Singapore ICS Cyber Security Conference Dragosu2019 research has also showed that targeted ICS intrusions are not as rare as they appear to be. While Stuxnet, Havex and BlackEnergy are the only pieces of malware known to specifically target ICS systems, the security firm has identified a dozen intrusions involving ICS-themed malware. These types of threats, disguised as legitimate ICS software, target operators and engineers. Dragos believes ICS-themed malware can be highly efficient in evading security products as many vendors simply donu2019t know how to tell apart legitimate from rogue ICS software. One ICS-themed malware that attracted the attention of researchers has been disguised as software for Siemens programmable logic controllers (PLCs). The threat, described by Dragos as crimeware, has been submitted to public malware databases ten times between 2013 and March 2017. The samples were initially detected by antiviruses as false positives and later as a basic piece of malware. u201cIn short, there has been an active infection for the last 4 years of an adversary attempting to compromise industrial environments by theming their malware to look like Siemens control software,u201d Lee said in a blog post. Dragos has not linked the Siemens-themed malware to a specific threat actor, Lee told SecurityWeek. Another noteworthy finding of the MIMICS project is related to operational security (OPSEC). Researchers discovered that public malware databases often contain legitimate ICS software components that have been erroneously flagged as malicious. Experts identified various such components, including human-machine interface (HMI) and data historian installers, and key generators. u201cThis means that adversaries can simply download these software files and leverage access to them for their own learning and practicing,u201d Lee explained. u201cKeeping our legitimate software out of the hands of the adversaries helps lengthen the time it takes them to target our environments.u201d Dragos has identified more than 120 project files in the public databases it has analyzed, including maintenance reports, Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) reports, and substation layouts. u201cThere are a few lessons here: have a discussion with the IT security teams (outsourced or on-site) on what is legitimate and what should not be submitted to the internet, validate what your security technologies are submitting to databases such as VirusTotal [...], and be proactive in looking at such databases for your own files and information,u201d Lee said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c41a6cefc41c844ab297" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Duqu 2.0 Used Stolen Digital Certificate in Attacks: Kaspersky Lab", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/duqu-20-used-stolen-digital-certificate-attacks-kaspersky-lab", "Date" : "June 15, 2015", "Article" : "The minds behind Duqu 2.0 used a stolen certificate in their attacks as part of a bid to stay stealthy, according to Kaspersky Lab. The attackers used a valid digital signature from Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. LTD (also known as Foxconn Technology Group). Foxconn manufactures electronics for a wide range of companies, including Apple and BlackBerry. The malware has been linked by security researchers to attacks on a number of targets, including venues tied to events and talks related to negotiations regarding Iran's nuclear program as well as Kaspersky Lab itself, which discovered Duqu 2.0 on its own internal systems earlier this year.u00a0 According to Kaspersky Lab, the certificate was issued by VeriSign and used to sign a driver designed to mask command-and-control traffic.u00a0 "The attackers created an unusual persistence module which they deploy on compromised networks," Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team (GReAT) explained in a blog post. "It serves a double function u2013 it also supports a hidden C&C communication scheme. This organization-level persistence is achieved by a driver that is installed as a normal system service. On 64-bit systems, this implies a strict requirement for an Authenticode digital signature. We have seen two such persistence drivers deployed in the course of attacks." According to researchers at Kaspersky Lab, the attackers installed these malicious drivers on firewalls, gateways and servers with direct Internet access on one side and corporate network access on the other side. By using those drivers, the attackers can access internal infrastructure from the Internet, dodge log records in corporate proxy servers and maintain a form of persistence. "In essence, the drivers are redirecting network streams to and from the gateway machine that runs it," the researchers explained. "To forward connections, the attacker first has to pass a network-based u201cknockingu201d mechanism by using a secret keyword. We have seen two different secret keywords in the samples we collected so far: u201cromanian.antihackeru201d and u201cugly.gorillau201d." In the case of Duqu, the attackers have been careful not to use the same signature more than once, the researchers noted.u00a0 "During our previous research into Stuxnet and Duqu we have observed digitally signed malware (using malicious Jmicron and Realtek certs)," according to Kaspersky Lab. "Stealing digital certificates and signing malware on behalf of legitimate businesses seems to be a regular trick from the Duqu attackers. We have no confirmation that any of these vendors have been compromised but our indicators definitely show that the Duqu attackers have a major interest in hardware manufacturers such as Foxconn, Realtek and Jmicron. This was confirmed in the 2014/2015 attacks, when we observed infections associated with hardware manufacturers from APAC, including ICS and SCADA computer equipment manufacturers." "Another interesting observation is that besides these Duqu drivers we havenu2019t uncovered any other malware signed with the same certificates," the researchers continued. "That rules out the possibility that the certificates have been leaked and are being used by multiple groups. It also seems to indicate the Duqu attackers are the only ones who have access to these certificates, which strengthens the theory they hacked the hardware manufacturers in order to get these certificates." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c41c6cefc41c844ab29e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Feedback Friday: Industry Reactions to Duqu 2.0 Attacks", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/feedback-friday-industry-reactions-duqu-20-attacks", "Date" : "June 12, 2015", "Article" : "The existence of a new version of the notorious Duqu worm has come to light this week. This highly sophisticated piece of malware has been used by threat actors in targeted attacks aimed at several major organizations, including Russia-based security firm Kaspersky Lab. Kaspersky Lab spotted Duqu 2.0 on its networks while testing a prototype of a new technology designed to detect advanced persistent threats (APTs). The malware evades detection by residing only in the systemu2019s memory, and by using infected network gateways and firewalls to communicate with command and control (C&C) servers. The reason why the attackers targeted the security firm is unclear; they might have been after technologies, source code, information on the inner workings of the company, or details on ongoing investigations and research methods.  Kaspersky Lab wasnu2019t the only company targeted with Duqu 2.0. A majority of the new 2014 and 2015 infections are linked to P5+1 events and venues related to Iran nuclear talks. Symantec has also analyzed Duqu 2.0 and discovered that the attackers targeted a telecommunications operator in Europe, one in North Africa, and a Southeast Asian electronic equipment manufacturer. Infections have also been spotted in the United States, the United Kingdom, Sweden, India, and Hong Kong. Attribution is difficult so Kaspersky Lab and Symantec have refrained from pointing the finger at anyone, but one of the main suspects appears to be Israel. Experts contacted by SecurityWeek have commented on the similarities between these Duqu 2.0 attacks and other operations, the malwareu2019s level of sophistication, methods that can be used to identify such threats, and the possible involvement of Israel. And the feedback begins... Dr. Fengmin Gong, co-founder & CSO, Cyphort: u201cDuqu 2.0 is no doubt by the same actor group as Duqu, and although Duqu 2.0 wasnu2019t reported until recently, the samples being analyzed were actually from 2014 suggesting threat activities started at least last year. As evidence of "handwriting" fingerprints, not only that there are clear derivative enhancements typically associated with newer releases of the same software from the same authors, the same logging design and code-assignment is used; the same bug exits in both the old Duqu and Duqu 2.0 samples. Duqu uses Cipher Block Chaining mode of AES encryption to protect its configuration file. The same prepare_key method (in object oriented programming) is used in both Duqu and Duqu 2.0, but the old Duqu version only supports fixed 256-bit encryption key while the new Duqu 2.0 support 128bit, 192bit, and 512bit keys with the addition of the parameter for key size; however, in the encryption implementation, both versions have a bug in handling the corner case where the input data is less than 16 bytes.  The first Duqu is like a "cousin" of Stuxnet. In light of Duqu 2.0 involvement in compromising Kaspersky, it is a safe bet that Duqu is associated with the "Five Eyes" alliance, comprising Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States, and possibly Israel. Duqu 2.0 comes with the most comprehensive and sophisticated set of payload capabilities for persistence, target-system dis-armoring, lateral spread, and data collection. Considering its discovered releases associated with important events." Andrew Conway, research analyst at Cloudmark: "Though they never name them explicitly, Kaspersky goes to some lengths to present the evidence that Duqu is in fact the work of Israeli intelligence services. Firstly, they show the connections between the Duqu 1.0 attack and the Duqu 2.0 attack, and conclude that Duqu 2.0 could not have been written without access to Duqu 1.0 source code, which was never made public. By an analysis of the times of command and control activity and compiler timestamps, they concluded that the Duqu 1.0 attack came from a country that is located in the GMT+2 or +3 time zone, where the work week starts on Sunday and ends with a short day on Friday. They also noted that Jan. 1st appeared to be a business day in this country. Israel is the only country with a significant cyber espionage capability that matches this profile. (Parts of Russia are in the same time zone, but they don't work on Sundays.) Some of the Duqu attacks were targeted at the negotiations over Iran's nuclear program, which would also be consistent with Israel being responsible.  In attacks this sophisticated, some would consider the possibility that the U.S. intelligence services are responsible. However, Kaspersky points out that Duqu appears to be operating independently of the Equation group (in fact, they found one machine that was infected by both Duqu and Equation malware) and the Equation group is believed by some to be the NSA.  Duqu appears to be the most sophisticated nation state espionage tool yet discovered. It relies heavily on zero day vulnerabilities in Microsoft software to gain access and spread from machine to machine. I strongly suspect that the authors had access to Microsoft source code in order to discover and exploit these zero days. In his keynote address at the 2014 RSA conference, Microsoft's Scott Charney admitted that Microsoft source code was made available to foreign governments, so that they could ensure it was secure. This is actually the worst possible approach. Nation state security services have access to the source code to look for vulnerabilities, but white hat security researchers do not. If Microsoft is going to share their source code with potentially malicious actors, they should make it open source and offer a generous bug bounty, so that it is subject to security review by people who are actually interested in making the Internet more secure." Gautam Aggarwal, Chief Marketing Officer, Bay Dynamics: u201cThere is a high chance this was a new variation of Duqu u2013 i.e. in-memory attack so nothing gets written directly to the system, and there are no traces of this attack once the system goes through a reboot; hence it being extremely difficult to detect. As Kaspersky Lab shared that they are doing their due diligence to see what happened and what exactly was lost, the reason it is a challenge for them as this is most likely due to the fact that the attacker rebooted the system, leaving no traces of the attack or what was actually scanned within the system.  We definitely have not seen the end of this story. This is a very similar pattern to what happened to RSA in March 2011. They were the primary attack victim where RSA SecurID group was perpetrated which manufactures the Two-Factor hardware authentication tokens. In May 2011, we heard about a major data breach at US Defense Contractor Lockheed Martin. This was a secondary attack where attackers reportedly exploited Lockheedu2019s VPN access system, which allows employees to log in remotely by using their RSA SecurID hardware tokens. That suggests that whoever attacked Lockheed Martin may also have been behind the successful breach at RSA.  Similarly, my feeling is the attackers were looking for vulnerabilities in Kasperskyu2019s secure OS so that the same can be exploited at client sites where they are deployed. This is how attackers would inflict a larger collateral damage.u201d Jeremy Scott, senior research analyst, Solutionary: u201cThe actors behind Duqu are speculative at best, but some have pointed fingers to the United States and/or Israel. Kaspersky discovered that Duqu infections, which were first discovered by CrySys, were common with Equation group intrusions. The actors have been dubbed u201cDuqu groupu201d based on the malware itself or u201cTilded teamu201d based on the framework used for the malware development that uses a tilde (~) at the beginning of the files. There are also similarities with the u201cTildedu201d framework in the Stuxnet and Flame code which leads researchers to believe that the actors behind Stuxnet are the same or working with the Duqu actors.  As far as the Kaspersky Lab intrusion, which was investigated and reported by Kaspersky, itu2019s not exactly clear the motivation of the intrusion. Itu2019s not uncommon for APT groups to infiltrate security vendors to gain information about operations, products, detection methods, future products, etc. Again, purely speculative, but according to Kaspersky there was very specific information that they were focusing on.  Picking targets and target organizations by APT groups is not purely random as it is with the crimeware world. The actors behind Duqu, as well as Stuxnet, have a particular interest with Iran and its nuclear capabilities. I have not seen any specifics on the targeting of organizations involved in Iran nuclear talks, but it can be assumed that if targeting is happening then those involved would be good targets.u201d Aaron Shelmire, senior threat researcher, ThreatStream: "At ThreatStream, we would be surprised if the advanced actors were not attempting to gather inside information from security organizations. These actors have a vested interest in understanding the defensive tools and techniques that are used to detect and stop them from reaching their objectives.  Kaspersky took a refreshing leadership position by publishing a detailed document of the intrusion and what their analysts found. Many of the general techniques described in the paper (such as relying upon driver-based tools on externally facing servers, while pivoting internally without the use of persistent tools) are not unique to that threat actor. These types of lessons learned are helpful to the security community as a whole, by providing analysts with a first-hand account of what offensive techniques they need to be able to detect and defend against. " Muddu Sudhakar, CEO of Caspida: "Duqu is a family of malware first discovered in 2011. It has significant code similarities to Stuxnet, suggesting that it may have originated from the same source or was written by actors with access to the Stuxnet source code. Earlier this spring, Kaspersky Lab discovered that it had been compromised with malware believed to be from the Duqu threat actors, and dubbed the attack "Duqu 2.0.  Both the original and the new Duqu attack leverage advanced techniques such as zero-day vulnerabilities and stolen code-signing certificates. Both attacks also appear to be modular platforms for information stealing u2013 the original attack gathered information about industrial control systems, with the ability to steal digital certificates and private encryption keys. In light of these and other factors, many security professionals believe that the Duqu threat group is sponsored by Israel with the aim of targeting Iran's nuclear program.  The recent Duqu 2.0 attack is yet another example of how sophisticated threats are able to fool existing security gateways. In this case, Duqu's creators learned about Kaspersky Labu2019s methods in order to write malware capable of evading known blocking techniques. These increasingly sophisticated techniques illuminate the limitation of static rules or signature based techniques, regardless of how advanced they might be." Oliver Tavakoli, Vectra Networks CTO: u201cThe Duqu 2.0 attack is a perfect example of why behavioral approaches to detection are essential in the face of a sophisticated attack. From Kasperkyu2019s analysis, the attackers exploited zero-day vulnerabilities to infect a user and gain administrator privileges. From this point, the attacker performed an internal reconnaissance and then performed a pass-the-hash technique to move laterally within the network. The attackers then created MSI packages to infect additional machines.  While the exploits of the zero-day vulnerabilities were undetectable, the reconnaissance and spreading behaviors that followed are clearly observable by tracking the internal behavior on the network. Although the attack was sophisticated, the fundamental steps required to advance the attack toward the attackeru2019s ultimate goal remain the same. There will always be new vulnerabilities and exploits, but the attackeru2019s actions after gaining a foothold will continue to give them away.u201d Morten Kjaersgaard, Heimdal Security CEO: u201cThe attack on Kaspersky is unfortunate and it relates to a reality that all security companies need to be aware of:  We need to accept that we are a more interesting target than many others. Itu2019s very important that both businesses and individuals acknowledge the threat posed by Duqu/Stuxnet type of worms and that they are actively used for spying across the world.  The fact that multiple Zero Day vulnerabilities were used in the ill fated attack against Kaspersky shows the imperative need to keep our software updated at all times to patch vulnerabilities and reduce the risk of infection. For example, Adobeu2019s critical update for Flash Player released on June 9 or one of the 8 security vulnerabilities patched by Microsoft this month could have been used in this attack.  Either as a business owner or individual user, you need to move quickly on getting rid of vulnerabilities, as they are the prefered attack angle for cyber criminals in more than 70% of cases. Having accepted your risk of unknowingly having an infection, you must also actively protect against data leakage by using an APT protection solution to block threats and monitor what is happening on your devices.  We are all obliged to contribute to the fight against cyber crime the best way we can.u201d Patrick Belcher, Director of Malware Analysis at Invincea: "The Duqu2 attack showed some similarities to the Anthem and White House APT attacks. In each instance, the victims were highly security-aware personnel - people who are taught to be wary of email attachments and links - yet they fell prey to spear-phishing. This trend highlights that despite current defense-in-depth approaches and security training, the soft target remains the user behind the keyboard. Unless the industry gets serious about hardening end user devices through breach prevention technology, this trend will likely continue." Rob Sadowski, Director of Technology Solutions at RSA: u201cThis attack on Kaspersky should provide further incentive for organizations to frequently update their risk and threat assessments and broaden their aperture as concerns potential attackers. Many more private sector organizations need to consider the possibility of nation-state or nation-state level actors targeting their operations or intellectual property and adjust their defense strategies accordingly. Despite the importance of continuous risk assessment and re-evaluation, in recent RSA research, 45% of global organizations described their capabilities as non-existent or ad hoc in this essential discipline, a troubling sign.  The details disclosed about the attack and the attacker TTPs also demonstrate how essential granular network and endpoint forensics are in detecting the activity of highly sophisticated attackers, as well as the required capability to move beyond detection of a single infected host to a full picture of all the adversaryu2019s activity inside the compromised infrastructure in order to disrupt and remediate this level of attack.u201d Karl Sigler, Threat Intelligence Manager at Trustwave: u201cDuqu 2.0 is YAAPT (Yet Another Advanced Persistent Threat) using anti-forensic evasion techniques and zero day exploits. Targeted attacks like these go to long lengths to prevent being detected. The campaign utilized three zero day vulnerabilities, gained domain administrative access and spread itself to other systems as an MSI file. Unlike most malware campaigns, it also avoided permanence or persistence in order to achieve a higher level of stealth. Itu2019s clear the criminals behind this campaign have in-depth technical expertise.  Network monitoring can provide an early warning to these types of attacks. In fact, this campaign was initially spotted through some anomalous, unexpected network traffic. The campaign also demonstrates that there is no such thing as 100% security. Being able to identify a compromise quickly and recover after a breach is just as important as the proactive measures to prevent a breach from the get-go. Our recently released 2015 Trustwave Global Security Report shows that in 2014 there was a median time of just over two weeks from intrusion to containment for organizations that detect a breach themselves. For organizations that found out through a third party they had been breached the median time from intrusion to containment was 154 days.u201d Dan Lohrmann, Chief Strategist and CSO of Security Mentor: u201cBased on the reports by Kaspersky, and independently verified by Symantec, Duqu 2.0 is another example of the growing number of advanced cyber-threats being used by nation-states in the most sensitive of situations. These advanced, expensive cyber-weapons are being created at the high end of the u201ccyber food chain.u201d We have entered a new era which is similar to the Cold War in the 20th century, with 21st century cyber weapons being used in place of nuclear weapons.  However, unlike with nuclear weapons, there is a major impact to global business in the use of these new cyber-weapons. New types of malware are trickling down in various forms to be used to steal intellectual property and infiltrate organizationu2019s most sensitive communications and secrets. Inevitably, when this malware genie is out of the bottle, it is very difficult to control what happens next. Welcome to the new world of cyber espionage.u201d Ivan Shefrin, Vice President, Security Solutions, TaaSera: u201cThe recently publicized Duqu 2.0 attacks on both the Iran nuclear negotiations and Kaspersky Labs have several facts in common: both were targeted, meant to steal highly confidential information, and undiscovered until after a data breach occurred.  They also highlight the need for IT security teams to find new ways for early detection. Our industry needs to move beyond traditional signature-based firewall and antivirus defenses. We should more aggressively implement behavior-based solutions for uncovering hidden malicious breach indicators moving laterally within their target environments. We must pair behavior detection with automated analytics that speed detection and response time for the professionals tasked with intervention.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c42a6cefc41c844ab2b7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet Still Present in Some Organizations: Researchers", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/stuxnet-still-present-some-organizations-researchers", "Date" : "June 09, 2015", "Article" : "The notorious Stuxnet malware is still actively running on some computers and while the threat cannot be controlled by the original attackers, its presence demonstrates the weak security posture of these organizations. Stuxnet, reportedly developed by the United States and Israel, is a worm designed to target industrial systems. The malware became known as the worldu2019s first cyber weapons after it caused serious damage at Iranian nuclear facilities. Now, five years after it was first discovered, Stuxnet infections still exist, according to Czech Republic-based security firm Kleissner & Associates, which operates the botnet monitoring system Virus Tracker. In a paper published last week, titled u201cInternet Attacks Against Nuclear Power Plants,u201d the company provided some Stuxnet-related statistics from Virus Tracker. Kleissner & Associates has the ability to monitor Stuxnet infections because it has acquired two of the command and control (C&C) domains used by the worm and pointed them to Virus Tracker sinkhole servers. According to Kleissner, there were at least 153 unique machines infected with Stuxnet in 2013 and 2014. Nearly half of these infections were traced back to Iran, but some infected devices had also been spotted in India, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Kazakhstan and China. Experts determined that six of the infected computers had SCADA development software installed. While these statistics are from 2013 and 2014, even today there are a few organizations that have failed to remove Stuxnet from their systems. Peter Kleissner, founder and CEO of Kleissner & Associates, told SecurityWeek that Virus Tracker shows more than 200 Stuxnet infection records in 2015. India accounts for roughly 45 percent of infection records, followed by Iran with 33 percent, and Indonesia with 10 percent. Kleissner has pointed out that the number of infection records doesnu2019t indicate the number of unique infected devices because the same infection can generate multiple records.  Kleissner noted that while the malware is still actively running in the background on these machines, it cannot be controlled by the original attackers because the C&C domains are owned by the security company. However, this shows that some organizations are not doing a good job when it comes to cleaning up malware. The statistics presented by the security firm are meant to show that there is a risk of Stuxnet-like operations and that nuclear plants might not be difficult to breach. u201cIt is inevitable that existing malware infections lower the overall security of the particular machines and the entire networks and therefore make it easier (or possible at all) for anyone else to intrude the system,u201d reads Kleissner & Associatesu2019 researcher paper. u201cJust as Kleissner & Associates' C&C domain control enables us to control any remaining Stuxnet infected machines, any capable intelligence service (or individual with the knowledge and skills) could seize control and potentially cause considerable damage leveraging the remaining infections.u201d According to the security firm, many nuclear facilities host administrative systems infected with common malware. Attackers can leverage access to these administrative systems to mount attacks on industrial control systems. Virus Tracker shows malware infections at IP ranges that appear to belong to nuclear facilities, but experts cannot determine if the infected device is a workeru2019s laptop, a guest Wi-Fi, or a machine controlling the entire nuclear power plant. On the other hand, Kleissner has pointed out that any malware connecting from the facility to external C&C servers can be problematic. Kleissner told SecurityWeek that they have identified Conficker B and Ramdo infections on IP addresses that appear to belong to an energy provider in the United States. Other examples include Conficker and Sality infections on IP addresses apparently associated with atomic energy research organizations in China and Korea. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c45f6cefc41c844ab30d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stealthy Data Exfiltration Possible via Magnetic Fields", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/stealthy-data-exfiltration-possible-magnetic-fields", "Date" : "February 08, 2018", "Article" : "Researchers have demonstrated that a piece of malware present on an isolated computer can use magnetic fields to exfiltrate sensitive data, even if the targeted device is inside a Faraday cage. A team of researchers at the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Israel have created two types of proof-of-concept (PoC) malware that use magnetic fields generated by a deviceu2019s CPU to stealthily transmit data. A magnetic field is a force field created by moving electric charges (e.g. electric current flowing through a wire) and magnetic dipoles, and it exerts a force on other nearby moving charges and magnetic dipoles. The properties of a magnetic field are direction and strength. The CPUs present in modern computers generate low frequency magnetic signals which, according to researchers, can be manipulated to transmit data over an air gap. The attacker first needs to somehow plant a piece of malware on the air-gapped device from which they want to steal data. The Stuxnet attack and other incidents have shown that this task can be accomplished by a motivated attacker. Once the malware is in place, it can collect small pieces of information, such as keystrokes, passwords and encryption keys, and send it to a nearby receiver. The malware can manipulate the magnetic fields generated by the CPU by regulating its workload u2013 for example, overloading the processor with calculations increases power consumption and generates a stronger magnetic field. The collected data can be modulated using one of two schemes proposed by the researchers. Using on-off keying (OOK) modulation, an attacker can transmit u201c0u201d or u201c1u201d bits through the signal generated by the magnetic field u2013 the presence of a signal represents a u201c1u201d bit and its absence a u201c0u201d bit. Since the frequency of the signal can also be manipulated, the malware can use a specific frequency to transmit u201c1u201d bits and a different frequency to transmit u201c0u201d bits. This is known as binary frequency-shift keying (FSK) modulation. Ben Gurion University researchers have developed two pieces of malware that rely on magnetic fields to exfiltrate data from an air-gapped device. One of them is called ODINI and it uses this method to transmit the data to a nearby magnetic sensor. The second piece of malware is named MAGNETO and it sends data to a smartphone, which typically have magnetometers for determining the deviceu2019s orientation. In the case of ODINI, experts managed to achieve a maximum transfer rate of 40 bits/sec over a distance of 100 to 150 cm (3-5 feet). MAGNETO is less efficient, with a rate of only 0.2 - 5 bits/sec over a distance of up to 12.5 cm (5 inches). Since transmitting one character requires 8 bits, these methods can be efficient for stealing small pieces of sensitive information, such as passwords. Researchers demonstrated that ODINI and MAGNETO also work if the targeted air-gapped device is inside a Faraday cage, an enclosure used to block electromagnetic fields, including Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, cellular and other wireless communications. In the case of MAGNETO, the malware was able to transmit data even if the smartphone was placed inside a Faraday bag or if the phone was set to airplane mode.   Ben-Gurion researchers have found several ways of exfiltrating data from air-gapped networks, including throughu00a0infrared cameras,u00a0router LEDs,u00a0scanners,u00a0HDD activity LEDs, USB devices, the noise emitted by hard drives and fans, and heat emissions. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c48a6cefc41c844ab35d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "WikiLeaks Details CIA's Air-Gapped Network Hacking Tool", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/wikileaks-details-cias-air-gapped-network-hacking-tool", "Date" : "June 23, 2017", "Article" : "WikiLeaks published several documents on Thursday detailing a tool allegedly used by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to hack air-gapped networks through USB drives. Dubbed u201cBrutal Kangaroo,u201d it has been described by its developer as a tool suite designed for targeting closed networks. The infected systems will form a covert network, and the attacker will be able to obtain information and execute arbitrary files. One component of Brutal Kangaroo is called u201cShattered Assuranceu201d and itu2019s designed to automatically spread the tool to USB drives connected to a device within the targeted organization that was infected remotely via the Internet. Shattered Assurance relies on a tool named u201cDrifting Deadlineu201d to infect thumb drives. Once the victim connects the infected drive to an air-gapped network and Brutal Kangaroo is deployed, a component named u201cBroken Promiseu201d is used to evaluate the harvested data. The last component, dubbed u201cShadow,u201d acts as the primary persistence mechanism and command and control (C&C) server on the closed network. The documents published by WikiLeaks show that Drifting Deadline and Shattered Assurance replaced two previous tools named u201cEZCheeseu201d and u201cEmotional Simian.u201d  Brutal Kangaroo infects USB drives by exploiting Windows vulnerabilities that allow an attacker to execute arbitrary DLL files using specially crafted shortcut (LNK) files. At least some of the exploits do not require users to actually run the malicious files. Earlier versions of EZCheese leveraged a Windows vulnerability (CVE-2015-0096) discovered and patched in 2015. The flaw is a newer variant of CVE-2010-2568, which the notorious Stuxnet worm used in attacks aimed at Iranu2019s nuclear program. One exploit used in later versions, dubbed u201cLachesisu201d and designed for Windows 7, relies on autorun.inf to execute the malicious file as soon as the thumb drive is plugged in. Another exploit, named u201cRiverJacku201d and designed for Windows 7, 8 and 8.1, leverages library-ms functionality. Microsoft said the vulnerabilities used by these exploits have already been patched in supported versions of Windows, but itu2019s unclear when. The company this month patched a LNK remote code execution flaw (CVE-2017-8464) that has been actively exploited, but no information has been provided on these attacks. While the exploits may have been successful in some cases, the Brutal Kangaroo documents show that security products from Symantec, Avira, Avast, Bitdefender and Kaspersky did block at least some functionality and attack vectors. WikiLeaks has been publishing CIA files, which are part of a leak dubbed u201cVault 7,u201d nearly every week since March 23. The tools exposed by the whistleblower organization include ones designed for replacing legitimate files with malware, hacking Samsung smart TVsu00a0and routers, MitM tools, a framework used to make malware attribution and analysis more difficult, and a platform for creating custom malware installers. Security firms have found links between the tools exposed by Wikileaks and the malware used by a cyber espionage group tracked as u201cLonghornu201d and u201cThe Lamberts.u201d Related Reading: Hackers Can Use Scanners to Control Air-Gapped Malware Related Reading: Router LEDs Allow Data Theft From Air-Gapped Computers " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4906cefc41c844ab367" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Rogue Antivirus Malware Uses Digital Certificates as Disguise", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/rogue-antivirus-malware-uses-digital-certificates-disguise", "Date" : "December 16, 2013", "Article" : "Researchers at Microsoft say a sophisticated family of rogue antivirus malware has reappeared using at least a dozen digital code-signing certificates.   The use of the certificates is yet another example of malware authors abusing the Internet's trust ecosystem in order to comprise users. With a stolen certificate in tow, a cybercriminal can sign a piece of malware and make it appear as though it is software from a legitimate developer.The tactic is not new; in fact, the notorious Stuxnet malware was observed using a valid signature when it was discovered by the security community in 2010. During the past month, a rogue antivirus program known as 'Antivirus Security Pro' (detected as Rogue:Win32/Winwebsec) has stepped up and adopted the tactic in a big way, as Microsoft speculates that the dozen or so certificates it has seen being used may just be the tip of the iceberg if there are other variants are out there.   "A related family, TrojanSpy:Win32/Ursnif, has also been distributed with files signed using stolen credentials," blogged David Wood of Microsoft's Malware Protection Center. "We have observed Winwebsec downloadingu00a0Ursnif, a Trojan that monitors web traffic, and steals sensitive information, including passwords. Earlier variants of Ursnif were also capable of stealing certificates and private keys, but this functionality does not appear to be present in the latest versions. Instead, it appears to have been added to certain samples of PWS:Win32/Fareit."   The certificates used by Antivirus Security Pro were issued to developers by some of the most prominent certificate authorities in the world, including VeriSign and Comodo. According to Microsoft, one of these certificates was issued just three days before researchers saw malware samples signed with it, suggesting that the malwareu2019s distributors are regularly stealing new certificates as opposed to using older certificates they previously stockpiled.   "Just as it is important to keep your house and car keys secure, securing your code-signing private keys is essential," Wood blogged. "Not only is it inconvenient, and often expensive, to have the certificate replaced, it can also result in loss of your companyu2019s reputation if it is used to sign malware."   "Certainly, no system used to store code-signing credentials should ever be used for web browsing, and it is vital that these systems run a regularly updated antivirus solution, and that any file you sign has been scanned for possible virus infection beforehand," he continued. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4926cefc41c844ab36c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Industry Reactions to 'CrashOverride' Malware: Feedback Friday", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/industry-reactions-crashoverride-malware-feedback-friday", "Date" : "June 16, 2017", "Article" : "ESET and Dragos this week published reports detailing a sophisticated piece of malware believed to have been used in the December 2016 attack aimed at Ukraineu2019s power grid. Dubbed Industroyer and CrashOverride, this modular malware has several components: a backdoor, a launcher, a data wiper, DoS and port scanner tools, and at least four payloads. The payloads allow the malwareu2019s operators to control electric circuit breakers via industrial communication protocols, which suggests that at least some of the malwareu2019s developers have a deep understanding of power grid operations and industrial network communications.  Researchers described some theoretical attack scenarios involving this malware and warned that the threat could be adapted for attacks on other countries, including the U.S., and other sectors. Contacted by SecurityWeek, industry professionals shared some thoughts on the threat posed by CrashOverride/Industroyer, and provided recommendations on how organizations can protect their systems. And the feedback begins... Phil Neray, VP of Industrial Cybersecurity, CyberX: u201cUnlike in the first Ukrainian grid attack, where humans were required to remotely control the mouse on compromised SCADA workstations to open the breakers, this malware hijacks ICS devices by communicating directly with them in an automated way, using native ICS protocols such as OPC and IEC 101. We've only seen that once before, with Stuxnet. Another interesting way it's similar to Stuxnet is that it manipulates ICS systems to report back that everything's OK when in fact it isn't. [...] The malware is very modular and could easily be extended to support other protocols such as DNP3 that are commonly used in US electric utilities. But it could also be extended to attack other industries such as manufacturing, food processing, chemicals, and pharmaceuticals. We've already seen that nation-states and cybercriminal organizations commonly share advanced tools, so it's easy to imagine the same tools being used to lock down factories and hold companies up for a lot of ransomware. Another plausible scenario would be stealing corporate trade secrets by probing ICS devices for proprietary information about manufacturing processes and formulas, and then selling the sensitive IP to competitors or to the Chinese on the black market.u201d Eric Cornelius, VP of Innovation, Cylance: u201cDespite the fact that power grids around the world could be exploited by such a tool, the fear that our nationu2019s infrastructure will be attacked is largely unfounded. Simply because this weapon is made of code rather than lead doesnu2019t change the response that its use on our civilian infrastructure will provoke. Given our heightened sensitivity to cyberattacks due to the recent evidence of election tampering, it is easy to conclude that our power grid will be next. That being said, we canu2019t forget that it is the role of militaries around the world to develop, and test, weapons to use in the defense of their national interests. The existence of these weapons alone however, does not imply the intent to use them in acts of aggression and the concept of mutually assured destruction remains as true today as it did in the height of the cold war. u00a0 The takeaway from the discovery of this tool should be a firm reminder that the security of our critical infrastructure is on the minds of our adversaries and should remain at the top of ours. Whether or not there is an immediate intent to harm us, our way of life is inextricably linked to our aging infrastructure and the road to resiliency is long. The time to protect our future is now, yet our calls to action are all too often silenced by the uproar of the next big headline.u201d Jalal Bouhdada, Founder and Principal ICS Security Consultant, Applied Risk: u201cIndustroyer seems to be just a communication driver which toggles commands to achieve undefined or abnormal behaviour, of course the platform is build with smart logic in mind to cause destruction. The modular design might be an indication that the malware will be used in different environments, possibly hitting the US as well, as (DNP protocol for example) modules can be added at the desire of the Industroyer creators. Adding more advanced modules seems to be a viable options for the attackers, allowing them to perform targeted attacks a la Stuxnet. u00a0 We can debate who is responsible for creating such malware however what matters the most is how easy to create such piece of malware (like PoC ransomware Scythe) which target industrial devices. Industroyer is attacking the principal design choices of industrial protocols. Moreover If authentication was used to secure the communications between SCADA application in field devices, we wouldnu2019t had to face the effects of this malware. As little requirements are needed to perform Industroyer-like attacks, a fair prediction would say that we will see such malware more often, targeting a variety of industries (One can literally use legitimate tools to recreate the effects of Industroyer).u201d Learn More at SecurityWeeku2019s 2017 ICS Cyber Security Conference Avi Chesla, CEO and Founder, empow: The latest cyberthreat out of Russia u2013 the CrashOverride malware u2013 is particularly dangerous because it is capable of executing various malicious activities against different systems autonomously. Yes, it still may require control from the outside, but with developments in AI, hackers can develop ever-more sophisticated, u201csmarteru201d malware that can do an enormous amount of damage without human intervention. For example, they can independently identify patterns of different system types and vulnerabilities and decide how to exploit them. u00a0 So u201cself-sufficientu201d malware is the future of cyberattacks. The WannaCry attack demonstrated some initial basic capabilities u2013 ransomware that can propagate inside the network u2013 which make it more independent than most previous ransomware weu2019ve seen. In 2015, the Russian malware used to disrupt the power supply network in Ukraine required hackers to remotely manipulate control systems. But the definite trend is toward malware that does not require external activation, and can independently act and propagate inside its target organization.u201d Patrick McBride, CMO, Claroty: u201cIndustrial control systems have been exposed to attack for quite some time. The combination of IT/ICS network convergence u2013 providing poorly secured pathways to industrial control environments that were not designed with cybersecurity in mind u2013 is a dangerous mix. Individual systems have varying, often lackluster security controls in place. While it is very simple to attack ICS networks and cause some level of damage/outage to processes, plants and the electric grid, it is harder to cause permanent damage because of safety systems and the unique system/environment knowledge required to build malware with a more permanently destructive payload. But the systems are dangerously unprotected and the level of sophistication required to cause outages and real damage has been lowered. You donu2019t need u201cnation stateu201d-level expertise to copy or reuse existing malware like Industroyer or WannaCry to impact industrial systems. u00a0 It is unclear, at this time, whether Industroyer has been used beyond Ukraine. The concentration in Ukraine is plausibly rooted in the Russian/Ukraine conflict in general. Further, the adversary may also be leveraging the Ukraine grid as a test bed u2013 enabling it to further refine its malware and methods and better understand how victims will respond.u201d Alan Brill, Senior Managing Director, Cyber Security & Investigations, Kroll: u201cThe parts of an ICS u201ctalku201d to one another over data lines. In this case, an electric grid ICS could talk to a switch at a given substation and open or close it. Doing this to the right combination of switches can cause power to flow where it can cause damage to equipment and leave people in the dark with power outages. To avoid a utility being tied to only one vendor, the u201clanguagesu201d that these devices use to communicate became standardized across manufacturers. So once you understand how the language works, itu2019s going to work in a lot of power networks. u00a0 These systems were developed with the assumption that they werenu2019t connected to the Internet. Thus, commands could only come from the authorized users. Once the malware is in, it is able to transmit completely accurate and valid-appearing commands, and the language does not provide for positive authentication of the source. u00a0 Even more interesting, the u201cbad guysu201d realized that the authorized users could undo the damage they caused by issuing correcting commands. My understanding is that the malware also can wipe the software from the switch, so that undoing the unauthorized command takes manual intervention at the switch, which prolongs the problem.u201d Barak Perelman, CEO, Indegy: u201cThis malware demonstrates why ICS control-plane protocols must be protected. These proprietary, vendor-specific protocols, which are used to communicate with control devices (e.g. PLCs, RTUs and DCS) in industrial networks, make it very difficult to monitor access and changes made to critical devices. This lack of visibility enables adversaries to effectively attack these systems while hiding in plain sight. u00a0 Detecting malicious activity requires a deep understanding of these native protocols which cannot be accomplished using traditional network monitoring tools or by looking for network anomalies. Monitoring activity performed over control-plane protocols would have immediately identified all the reconnaissance scans in the CRASHOVERRIDE attack and enabled operational staff to prevent the outage. This approach can also identify attempts to tamper with these devices in real-time so threats can be mitigated before any damage is done.u201d u201cNathan Wenzler, chief security strategist, AsTech: u201cIncidents involving malware that target specific ICS systems, such as industroyer, are still relatively rare occurrences. However, because of their focus on disrupting power grids and other industrial systems, the amount of damage that can be caused can be incredibly significant. While malware of this nature targeting assets here in the U.S. as yet to reported publicly, it's incredibly likely that we will eventually face such a threat. Since malware like this is often backed by government groups, there is a lot of political motivation behind propagating this kind of attack to cause damage to infrastructure or other core services provided to large populations. u00a0 Industroyer is particularly interesting in that it is built in a modular fashion, which allows for multiple tools, exploit kits, or customized attack methods for different ICS targets to be added quickly and easily. This will make it trivial for whoever wrote this code to modify it for attacks against different targets or types of systems, allowing for a sort of morphing characteristic that will make it harder to detect and protect against as more and more variations are released into the wild. Add to this the fact that many vendors of ICS products don't often build security into their applications or provide quick upgrades, patches or hotfixes in response to identified vulnerabilities, it makes a malleable, flexible malware package like industroyer especially dangerous to defend against even if the variants are identified.u201d John Bamabenek, Threat Research Manager, Fidelis Cybersecurity: u201cIn the realm of security, bigger nations picking on smaller nations is nothing new and itu2019s often done without consequence. If Russia is behind this latest attack, there isn't much Ukraine can do about it. If Ukraine did have sufficient deterrent capability, they'd have kicked Russia out of Crimea and Eastern Ukraine by now. u00a0 Picking on the US is another matter. Unlike Russiau2019s election information operations, the US has a wide variety of response strategies. The US can launch physical attacks and respond in-kind. After all, the US and allies created Stuxnet. It can always decide to put the band back together. u00a0 The fact that the US can retaliate does not mean we aren't at risk. As a nation, we have a wide variety of infrastructure thatu2019s susceptible to attack. At the moment, our largest defense seems to be deterrence.u201d Paul Edon, Director of International Customer Services, Tripwire: u201cHistorically Industrial networks have used airgap and diode based architecture to defend against the risks associated with corporate intranet and Internet communications. However, due to economic pressures i.e. increasing costs and decreasing numbers of skilled resources, it has become necessary for many organizations to centralize some of the management and control functions that would have previously been local to industrial plants, refineries, distribution facilities etc. This centralization has meant expanding the reach of the enterprise network into the industrial environment, and in doing so, exposing those industrial environments to levels of cyber risk for which they were neither secured nor designed. u00a0 Post design security is always a much greater challenge than the u201csecurity by design and defaultu201d that we would expect today. However, the majority of attacks can still be defended against by employing the same strategy as that used for the enterprise i.e. u201cSecurity Best Practise,u201d u201cDefence in Depthu201d and u201c Foundational Controls.u201d Kaspersky Lab: u201cMalware with such functionality is pretty unique - although it shares ideas and approaches with other malware we have seen and attacks we have investigated. However, Kaspersky Lab and its ICS CERT have been warning for some time that cyber-attackers are increasingly willing and able to launch attacks on critical infrastructure, particularly industrial control systems connected to the Internet u2013 while organizations and countries remain worryingly under-prepared. In order to protect the ICS environment from possible cyber-attacks, Kaspersky Lab advises the following: Bryan Singer, Director of Industrial Cybersecurity Services and Sales, IOActive: u201cCrashOverride is a threat, certainly, and yet another wake up call for the industry. How large of a threat? It may impact lots of systems globally, but it is unlikely it will have widespread impacts to grid operations. The good news about attacking power grids is that it is hard. Not impossible, but certainly difficult. And requires insider equivalent information about systems across largely geographic areas. Also, given the mixture of digital, analog, and manual systems, widespread outages are unlikely from malware alone. u00a0 But, combining various cyber-physical techniques along with malware in a combined threat could certainly force multiply what CrashOverride can do now into a large scale grid event. That would require a lot of information about substation automation, what systems were in use, timing requirements between substations, interconnected systems across multiple utilities, and a myriad of other data. All obtainable, but certainly a large work effort to pull off.u201d Joseph Carson, chief security scientist, Thycotic: u201cItu2019s very likely weu2019ll see similar attacks in the US as most of the SCADA Control Systems and industrial control systems being used are the same. The major difference will be on how well those systems are being protected and what additional security controls are in place. For example, many of the incidents like that which occurred in Ukraine was a failure to even do the basic security controls that allowed the attackers to easily gain access and laterally move around the network undetected eventually carrying out the malicious activity. This highlights that cyber-criminals with sufficient technical knowledge, resources and time can plan an effective attack with potentially serious catastrophic results.u201d Andrea Carcano, Co-founder and Chief Product Officer, Nozomi Networks: u201cOrganizations with Industrial Control Systems (ICS) should know that technology is available today that provides real-time cybersecurity visibility for SOCs (Security Operations Centers) and that detects and mitigates APTs on OT systems. u00a0 For example, such a solution will detect queries being made to devices to collect data that could be used to design and implement a critical systems attack. And, through a deep understanding of the process being run by the ICS, identify that process parameters are changing and could bring the system into a critical state. u00a0 Once alerts about both data collection communications and process variable changes are communicated to the SOC, staff can execute prevention and mitigation measures.u201d Sven Schrecker, Chair, Industrial Internet Consortium Security Working Group: u201cAttacks on critical infrastructure are becoming too common in the world today. Furthermore, the techniques being implemented by the bad guys are becoming more advanced in their capabilities. It is a grave concern that these threats may target US infrastructure and succeed in doing significant damage. Weu2019ve seen such activity at a small scale in the past, and that should be a wake-up call that we must be proactive. u00a0 The methods for delivering the malware and attacking the systems is evolving at an ever increasing pace. Unfortunately, the legacy equipment that makes up the majority of the critical infrastructure base was never designed with cyber security in mind. The attackers are preying on this oversight. Fortunately, existing technology can be applied to critical infrastructure to mitigate some of the most egregious vulnerabilities and enable the critical infrastructure to continue to use the legacy protocols and processes with additional security in place.u201d David Zahn, GM of Cybersecurity Business Unit, PAS: u201cThere seems an undercurrent of surprise or reactionary concern when we hear details on how bad actors are advancing sophisticated means to attack critical infrastructure. In power, we are in denial that a similar attack could happen in the US. We also get mired in misconceptions that we are well prepared because of regulation, or squirrels - yes squirrels - are more likely to bring down power than a hacker. The problem is that nation states have a plan, squirrels do not. u00a0 The latest news about Crash Override is one more wakeup call that we need to become better at the cybersecurity basics which most industrial companies struggle doing today - know what ICS cyber assets you have (from smart field instruments to controllers to workstations), identify and managing vulnerabilities, detect when an unauthorized change occurs, and ensure backups are available.u201d  Learn More at SecurityWeeku2019s 2017 ICS Cyber Security Conference " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4986cefc41c844ab375" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New "Triton" ICS Malware Used in Critical Infrastructure Attack", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/new-ics-malware-triton-used-critical-infrastructure-attack", "Date" : "December 14, 2017", "Article" : "A new piece of malware designed to target industrial control systems (ICS) has been used in an attack aimed at a critical infrastructure organization, FireEye reported on Thursday. Experts believe the attack was launched by a state-sponsored actor whose goal may have been to cause physical damage. Few details have been provided about the targeted organization, and FireEye has not linked the attack to any known group, but believes with moderate confidence that itu2019s a nation state actor. This assumption is based on the apparent lack of financial motivation and the amount of resources necessary to pull off such an attack. The activity observed by FireEye may have been conducted during the reconnaissance phase of a campaign, and itu2019s consistent with attacks previously attributed to Russian, Iranian, U.S., North Korean and Israeli nation-state actors. The malware, which FireEye has dubbed u201cTriton,u201d is designed to target Schneider Electricu2019s Triconex Safety Instrumented System (SIS) controllers, which are used to monitor the state of a process and restore it to a safe state or safely shut it down if parameters indicate a potentially hazardous situation. According to analysis (PDF) conducted by ICS cyber security firm Dragos, which calls the malware "TRISIS", the victim was an industrial asset owner in the Middle East.u00a0 The engineering and maintenance tool used by Triconex SIS products is TriStation. The TriStation protocol is proprietary and there is no public documentation for it, but Triton does leverage this protocol, which suggests that the attackers reverse engineered it when creating their malware. Triton, which FireEye has described as an attack framework, is designed to interact with Triconex SIS controllers. The malware can write and read programs and functions to and from the controller, and query its state, but not all capabilities had been leveraged in this specific attack. The hackers deployed Triton on a Windows-based engineering workstation. The malware had left legitimate programs running on the controllers in place, but added its own programs to the execution table. The threat attempts to return the controller to a running state in case of a failure, or overwrite the malicious program with junk data if the attempt fails, likely in an effort to cover its tracks. In general, once the SIS controller has been compromised, the attacker can reprogram the device to trigger a safe state, which could cause downtime and result in financial losses. Attackers could also reprogram the SIS so that it allows dangerous parameters without triggering the safe state, which can have a physical impact, including on human safety, products and equipment, FireEye said. However, the physical damage that can be done via the SIS controller is limited by the mechanical safety systems deployed by an organization. In the case of the critical infrastructure attack investigated by FireEye, the attackers shut down operations after causing the SIS controllers to initiate a safe shutdown, but they may have done it inadvertently while trying to determine how they could cause physical damage. On the other hand, FireEye noted that u201cintrusions of this nature do not necessarily indicate an immediate intent to disrupt targeted systems, and may be preparation for a contingency.u201d Schneider Electric has launched an investigation into this incident, but initial evidence suggests that Triton does not leverage any vulnerabilities in the Triconex product and the company is not aware of any other attacks. u201cIt is important to note that in this instance, the Triconex system responded appropriately, safely shutting down plant operations. No harm was incurred by the customer or the environment,u201d the industrial giant said. Schneider said the targeted safety controllers are widely used in critical infrastructure, and itu2019s working on determining if there are any additional attack vectors. In the meantime, customers have been advised not to leave the front panel key position in u201cProgramu201d mode when the controller is not being configured. The malware can only deliver its payload if the key switch is set to this mode. Signatures of the malware samples identified by FireEye have been provided to cybersecurity firms so security products should be able to detect at least some variants of the threat. There are only a handful of malware families specifically designed to target industrial systems, including the notorious Stuxnet, and Industroyer, the malware used in the December 2016 attack aimed at an electrical substation in Ukraine. Last year, FireEye identified an ICS malware dubbed IRONGATE, but it had not been observed in any actual attacks, leading experts to believe that it may have been developed for research purposes. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c49b6cefc41c844ab37d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Four-Year Old Flaw Exploited by Stuxnet Still Targeted", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/four-year-old-flaw-exploited-stuxnet-still-targeted", "Date" : "August 18, 2014", "Article" : "It was 2010 when the Stuxnet malware first appeared in the public consciousness. Though the years have passed however, there is no shortage of machines still vulnerable to attacks on one of the vulnerabilities the malware exploited as it trotted across the globe. According to a paper released by Kaspersky Lab, CVE-2010-2568 remains a widely exploited security hole. Despite the age of the vulnerability, Kaspersky Lab detected tens of millions of exploits targeting the bug between November 2013 and June 2014, though not all may correlate to individual attacks due to the way the bug is exploited.u00a0 The vulnerability is a shortcut handling error in Microsoft Windows that affects XP, Vista, Windows 7 and Windows Server 2003 and 2008. If successfully exploited, attack code could be executed when the operating system displays the icon of a malicious shortcut file. The vulnerability was patched in August of 2010. "The first malware exploiting this vulnerability was registered in July 2010," the Kaspersky Lab report explained. "Specifically, the worm Sality uses this vulnerability to distribute its own code: the worm generates vulnerable shortcuts and distributes them through LAN. Should a user open the folder containing such shortcut, the malicious program immediately begins launching. After Sality and Stuxnet this vulnerability was used by the well-known Flame and Gauss spyware." Most of the detections of exploits for the vulnerability are registered in Vietnam, India, Indonesia, and Brazil, according to the report. Kaspersky Lab speculated that the persistence of the vulnerability may be due to the fact that many network administrators are not paying close enough attention to public servers under their control. As a result, malware such as Sality continue to propagate. "Non-protected workstations running under a vulnerable version of Windows may become the entry point for a targeted of attack on the company," according to report. "As we have pointed out in au00a0blogu00a0back in May, some vulnerabilities never die," Barry Shteiman, director of security strategy atu00a0Imperva, said in a statement. "Itu2019s not because they are overly complex or a patch has not yet been built...In many of the cases it's just because customers just donu2019t have the cycles or the awareness to patch. It is not uncommon to see systems go unpatched for years simply because there may be complexity involved with changes that the fix introduces." Hackers understand this, he added, which is why old vulnerabilities remain in use today. Other common Microsoft vulnerabilities observed being exploited during the November 2013 to June 2014 time period include CVE-2012-0158 and CVE-2010-3333, according to the report. Overall, Kaspersky Lab recorded a total of 15.06 million exploit detections on 3.64 million computers running various versions of Windows. Roughly 53 percent of these involved exploits written for Java vulnerabilities, the firm found.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4a36cefc41c844ab38e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "'Industroyer' ICS Malware Linked to Ukraine Power Grid Attack", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/industroyer-ics-malware-linked-ukraine-power-grid-attack", "Date" : "June 12, 2017", "Article" : " Researchers have conducted a detailed analysis of a piece of malware that appears to have been specially designed for cyberattacks targeting power grids. The malware is believed to have been used in the December 2016 attack aimed at an electrical substation in Ukraine. The malware was discovered by ESET, which has dubbed it Industroyer. The company has also shared some data with ICS cybersecurity company Dragos, which tracks it as CRASHOVERRIDE and the threat actor that uses it as ELECTRUM. Links to Ukraine power grid attacks Malware designed to specifically target industrial control systems (ICS) is rare u2013 Industroyer is only the fourth such threat known to the cybersecurity community. The other ICS-tailored malware families are Stuxnet, used in the 2010 attack targeting Iranian nuclear facilities, BlackEnergy, used in the December 2015 Ukraine power grid attacks, and Havex, used mainly against organizations in Europe. While they could not confirm that Industroyer/CRASHOVERRIDE was the direct cause of the 2016 power outages in Ukraineu2019s Kiev region, which are believed by many to be the work of Russia, both ESET and Dragos u2013 based on compilation dates and other data u2013 are fairly confident that this is the malware used in the attack. Dragos believes the ELECTRUM actor has direct ties to the BlackEnergy (Sandworm) group, and ESET pointed out that while there are no code similarities between the malware used in the 2015 and 2016 Ukraine attacks, some components are similar in concept. Attack scenarios Industroyer has been described as a sophisticated modular malware that has several components: a backdoor, a launcher, a data wiper, various tools, and at least four payloads. These payloads are the most interesting component as they allow the malwareu2019s operators to control electric circuit breakers. In one theoretical attack scenario described by Dragos in its report, malicious actors use the malware to open closed breakers in an infinite loop, causing the substation to de-energize. By executing commands in an infinite loop, the attackers ensure that operators of the targeted facility cannot close the breakers from the HMI. This can require operators to interrupt communications with the substation and manually address the issue, which could result in an outage that lasts for a few hours. In another scenario described by researchers, the attackers initiate an infinite loop where breakers continually open and close, which can trigger protections and cause the substation to go offline. Experts believe that launching such an attack in a coordinated fashion against multiple sites could result in outages that last for a few days. Industroyer/CRASHOVERRIDE components The malwareu2019s main backdoor component allows attackers to execute various commands on the infected system. It communicates with its command and control (C&C) servers over the Tor network and it can be programmed to be active only at specified times, which are likely mechanisms for avoiding detection. This component also deploys a secondary backdoor disguised as a trojanized version of the Windows Notepad application. The main backdoor is also responsible for installing the launcher component, which initiates the wiper and the payloads. Learn More at SecurityWeeku2019s 2017 ICS Cyber Security Conference The wiper is apparently designed for the final stages of the attack to help the attackers hide their tracks and make it more difficult to restore affected systems. This includes clearing registry keys, and overwriting ICS configuration and Windows files. The payloads, which allow attackers to control circuit breakers, leverage industrial communication protocols. This suggests that at least some of the malwareu2019s developers have a deep understanding of power grid operations and industrial network communications. Other tools tied to the Industroyer malware include a custom-built port scanner and a denial-of-service (DoS) tool that exploits CVE-2015-5374 to cause Siemens SIPROTEC relays to become unresponsive. While the samples analyzed by ESET and Dragos can be used to target other energy organizations in Europe and some parts of the Middle East, the malware could also be adapted for attacks targeting the North American grid. Researchers at Dragos pointed out that while CRASHOVERRIDE appears to be designed to specifically target the energy sector, attackers could create new modules for other types of targets. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4a56cefc41c844ab390" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Air-Gapped Computers Can Communicate Through Heat: Researchers", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/air-gapped-computers-can-communicate-through-heat-researchers", "Date" : "March 24, 2015", "Article" : "BitWhisper: Stealing Data From Isolated Computers Using Heat Emissions and Built-in Thermal Sensors Researchers at the Ben Gurion University in Israel have demonstrated that two computers in close proximity to each other can communicate using heat emissions and built-in thermal sensors. In an experimental scenario involving two debitvices placed at up to 15 inches from each other, researchers have managed to transmit up to 8 bits of data per hour, which is enough for exfiltrating sensitive data such as passwords and secret keys, and for sending commands. This novel attack method has been dubbed BitWhisper. It is not uncommon for organizations that handle highly sensitive information to isolate certain computers in order to protect valuable assets. Air-gap security is often used for industrial control systems (ICS) and military networks. However, as it has been demonstrated before, such as in the case of the notorious Stuxnet worm which targeted Iranian nuclear facilities, air-gap security can be breached. Over the past months, Ben Gurion University researchers have analyzed several techniques that can be leveraged to exfiltrate data from an air-gapped computer, including by using radio signals emitted by a deviceu2019s graphics card, and by using a multifunctional printer to receive and transmit data. Now, experts have demonstrated that a bidirectional communication channel can be established between two standard computers by using the heat emitted by various components, such as the CPU and the GPU. An attacker simply needs to plant a piece of malware on each of the PCs that need to communicate. In their experimental scenario, researchers placed two computers parallel to each other on a desk located in a standard office environment. One of the devices was connected to the Internet, while the other was connected to the internal network. This is a common scenario in many organizations where employees are required to carry out sensitive tasks on an air-gapped system while still needing access to the Internet.  Infecting the Internet-connected device with malware is not a difficult task. As demonstrated numerous times before, a piece of malware can be easily delivered using spear-phishing emails and social engineering techniques. Planting a threat on an isolated system is possible through attacks on the supply chain, infected USB drives, or with the aid of malicious insiders, researchers explained in a paper that will be published in the upcoming days. Once the malware is in place on both computers, heating patterns are generated on the sender device by controlling the CPU or GPU workload, which results in modifications in temperature. In the meantime, the receiving PC monitors the temperature changes using the thermal sensors built into the CPU, the GPU, the motherboard, or other components. u201cBitWhisper establishes a covert channel by emitting heat from one PC to the other in a controlled manner. By regulating the heating patterns, binary data is modulated into thermal signals. In turn, the adjacent PC uses its built-in thermal sensors to measure the environmental changes. These changes are then sampled, processed, and demodulated into binary data,u201d researchers explained. While BitWhisper is highly complex, with numerous variables that must be taken into consideration for the attack to be successful, the method doesnu2019t require any dedicated or modified hardware, experts noted. In addition to stealing sensitive information from air-gapped devices, the BitWhisper method can also be used for a worm attack or to send malicious commands to isolated ICS. u201cAfter infecting the networks, the malware spreads over both networks and searches the surroundings for additional PCs within close proximity, spatially. Proximity is determined by periodically sending u2018thermal pingsu2019 over the air,u201d researchers explained. u201cOnce a bridging attempt is successful, a logical link between the public network and the internal network in established. At this stage, the attacker can communicate with the formerly isolated network, issuing commands and receiving responses.u201d In a video demonstrating the capabilities of a BitWhisper prototype, researchers have used a USB missile launcher to shown that one air-gapped computer can send commands to another air-gapped device using only thermal radiation. Related Reading: "AirHopper" Malware Uses Radio Signals to Steal Data from Isolated Computers " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4d66cefc41c844ab3ec" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Report Connects Elite Hacking Group to NSA-Linked Cyberweapons", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/report-connects-elite-hacking-group-nsa-linked-cyberweapons", "Date" : "February 16, 2015", "Article" : "Capabilities of "Equation Group" Surpass Anything Known in Terms of Complexity and Sophistication of Cyber Attack Techniques CANCUN, Mexico -u00a0KASPERSKY SECURITY ANALYST SUMMIT - Before Stuxnet and Flame even made ripples on the cybersecurity radar, there was a group working on sophisticated zero-day malware and cyber-attacks. This group, which combined sophisticated and complex attack tools with classic spying techniques, have been infecting victims worldwide in practically every industry sector since 2001, according to a new report from Kaspersky Lab. u201cThere are solid links indicating that the Equation Group has interacted with other powerful groups, such as the Stuxnet and Flame operatorsu2014generally from a position of superiority,u201d Kaspersky Lab researchers said in the report released at the company's Security Analyst Summit in Cancun, Mexico on Monday.  The Equation Group uses complicated tools which were expensive to develop to infect victims, retrieve data, and hide activity in an u201coutstandingly professional way,u201d Kaspersky Lab researchers said.  The company estimates the Equation Group has infected thousands, u201ceven tens of thousands,u201d of victims, in more than 30 countries worldwide, covering government and diplomatic institutions, Telecommunications, Aerospace, Energy, Nuclear research, Oil and Gas, Military, Nanotechnology, Islamic activists and scholars, Mass media, Transportation, Financial institutions and companies developing encryption technologies.   The Equation Group is a u201cthreat actor that surpasses anything known in terms of complexity and sophistication of techniques,u201d Kaspersky Lab said. Considering the company has been monitoring more than 60 advanced threat actors responsible for cyber-attacks worldwide, that's saying a lot.  The researchers stopped shy of saying the Equation Group was part of the United States National Security Agency (NSA). But the sheer amount of explosive evidence they laid out strongly implicates the secret spy agency.  The Equation Group is known for using physical means to infect users, such as targeting participants at a scientific conference by sending them a malware-infected CD in the mail and intercepting a Cisco Systems router in the mail to implant Trojans in the firmware.  The Equation Group library includes a highly advanced keylogger called "Grok." In March, news reports from Snowden-leaked documents referenced a NSA-developed keylogger with the same name. And finally, there are references to "STRAITACID" and "STRAITSHOOTER" in the Equation Code's source code which seems to echo "STRAITBIZARRE," one of the most advanced malware platforms used by the NSA's Tailored Access Operations unit.  The Equation Group also had access to zero-days before they were used by Stuxnet and Flame, and at some point, it shared exploits with other operators. Kaspersky Lab observed seven exploits used by the Equation group in their malware, of which at last four were used as zero-days. An unknown exploitu2014possibly a zero-dayu2014was used against Firefox 17, which is used in the Tor browser.  Kaspersky Lab has identified some of the Trojans used to infect victims, including EquationLaser, EquationDrug, DoubleFantasy, TripleFantasy, Fanny and GrayFish. Fanny in 2008 used two zero-days which were later introduced into Stuxnet in June 2009 and March 2010. Kaspersky Lab had disclosed earlier that one of the zero-days used in Stuxnet was actually a module created for Flame.  The Fanny worm, whose main purpose was to map air-gapped networks, stands out from all the attacks performed by the Equation Group, the researchers found. The worm could understand the topology of a network that cannot be reached from the Internet, and to execute commands to these isolated systems. The worm used a unique USB-based command and control mechanism which allowed the attackers to pass data back and forth from air-gapped networks. The attackers could save commands in the hidden storage area on an infected USB stick, and when it was plugged into the target machine, Fanny was able to execute those commands.  Kaspersky Lab researchers were able to recover two modules which allowed the group to reprogram hard drive firmware of more than a dozen of the popular hard disk drive brands, including Western Digital, Maxtor, Samsung, IBM, Micron, Toshiba, and Seagate. The malware has an extreme level of persistence that helps to survive disk formatting and OS reinstallation. u201cIt means that we are practically blind, and cannot detect hard drives that have been infected by this malware,u201d said Costin Raiu, Director of the Global Research and Analysis Team at Kaspersky Lab. The malware could also create an invisible, persistent area hidden inside the hard drive to save exfiltrated information which can be later retrieved by the attackers. This means the attackers have the ability to capture the encryption password and save it into this hidden area, he said. "It can resurrect itself forever," Raiu said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4ee6cefc41c844ab419" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "6,000 Digital Certificates Used to Sign Malware, PUAs in 2014: Kaspersky", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/6000-digital-certificates-used-sign-malware-puas-2014-kaspersky", "Date" : "January 30, 2015", "Article" : "The large number of recent incidents involving malicious or potentially unwanted applications (PUAs) signed with digital certificates should make users and system administrators aware of the fact that digital signatures must not be blindly trusted, Kaspersky has warned. The number of certificates issued by certificate authorities (CAs) to companies and independent software developers over the past years has increased considerably. Compared to 2008, when the security firm identified roughly 1,500 certificates that had been used to sign malware and suspicious software, in 2014, after a steady year-over-year increase, the number reached well over 6,000. Using valid or forged digital certificates to sign malicious files is a common technique that has been seen in many advanced persistent threat (APT) operations, including Stuxnet, Winnti and Darkhotel. Threat actors and companies with a shady agenda can acquire certificates by stealing them, or by purchasing them legally. The problem is that, in some cases, CAs donu2019t investigate the activities of a company before issuing a digital certificate. u201cIt is companies manufacturing potentially unwanted software that most often purchase certificates. On the one hand these companies do not manufacture malware programs, so they can legally purchase a digital certificate to sign their software,u201d Andrey Ladikov, head of strategic research at Kaspersky Lab, wrote in a blog post. u201cOn the other hand, they produce software annoys users. In fact, they get their software signed with digital certificates precisely to encourage users to trust them.u201d In addition to legally purchasing certificates, cybercriminals can use several other techniques to sign malware. A rare, but not unheard of, method involves compiling a piece of malware using a companyu2019s build server. Software compiled on these build servers is automatically signed with a digital certificate. These types of attacks are uncommon because major software companies have proper security measures in place to protect their servers. Stealing private keys, which is often done with specialized malware, can also be lucrative because software signed by a reputable developer doesnu2019t attract suspicion. However, major companies store private keys on dedicated hardware modules, forcing cybercrooks to focus their attention on smaller companies whose networks might not be very secure, Kaspersky said. Another method involves modifying signed Web installers so that they download and install malware instead of the legitimate application. This is done by exploiting weaknesses in the algorithms that check executable file signatures. When CAs discovered that one of their certificates has been misused, they recall it. However, in some cases, especially when the certificate has been used to sign PUAs, the CA doesnu2019t recall it. The untrusted certificates remain valid in this case and they can be used to sign malicious software. According to Kaspersky, just over half of untrusted certificates are used to sign PUAs, while the rest are used to sign malware. u201cGiven the growing number of threats associated with malicious files signed with digital certificates, users and administrator can no longer risk placing blind faith in signed files and just allow them to be launched simply because they have a digital certificate,u201d Ladikov said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c50c6cefc41c844ab43b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "McAfee Unveils Threat Predictions for 2012", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/mcafee-unveils-threat-predictions-2012", "Date" : "December 28, 2011", "Article" : "McAfee has come forward with its list of 2012 threat predictions, part of a longstanding tradition in the InfoSec community, which outline what it sees as the largest obstacles to personal and organizational security in the coming year.  u201cMany of the threats that will become prominent in 2012, have already been looming under the radar in 2011,u201d said Vincent Weafer, senior vice president of McAfee Labs. u201cOver the past year, the general public has become more aware of some of these risks, such as threats to critical infrastructure or the impact of hacktivism as they gain international media attention. In the meantime we continue to see cybercriminals improving their toolkits and malware and are ready to make a significant impact in 2012.u201d McAfeeu2019s Top Threats to Watch for in 2012 include: Industrial Attacks Water, electricity, oil, and gas are essential to peopleu2019s everyday lives, yet many industrial systems are not prepared for cyberattacks. As with recent incidents directed at water utilities in the United States, attackers will continue to leverage this lack of preparedness, if only for blackmail or extortion in 2012. Mobile Threats:u00a0Attackers will bypass PCs  In 2012, mobile attackers will improve on their skill set and move toward mobile banking attacks. McAfee Labs expects attackers will bypass PCs and go straight after mobile banking apps, as more and more users handle their finances on mobile devices.  Hacktivism  Joining forces online and on the front lines McAfee Labs predicts that in 2012, either the u201ctrueu201d Anonymous group will reinvent itself, or die out. Additionally, those leading the digital disruptions will join forces with physical demonstrators, and will target public figures such as politicians, industry leaders, judges and law-enforcement, more than ever before.  Cyberwar: Flexing its muscles  Will 2012 be the year of Cyberwar, or merely a showcase of offensive cyberweapons and their potential? McAfee hopes itu2019s only the latter, but says the situationu2019s growth during recent years makes an eventual cyberwar nearly inevitable. Countries are vulnerable due to massive dependence on computer systems and a cyberdefense that primarily defends only government and military networks. Many countries realize the crippling potential of cyberattacks against critical infrastructure, such as water, gas and power, and how difficult it is to defend against them. McAfee Labs expects to see countries demonstrate their cyberwar capabilities in 2012, in order to send a message.  Rogue Certificates  Untrustworthy and undetectable Organizations and individuals tend to trust digitally signed certificates, however, recent threats such as Stuxnet and Duqu used rogue certificates to evade detection. McAfee Labs expects to see the production and circulation of fake rogue certificates increase in 2012. Wide-scale targeting of certificate authorities and the broader use of fraudulent digital certificates will affect key infrastructure, secure browsing and transactions as well as host-based technologies such as whitelisting and application control. Embedded Hardware:u00a0The Promised Land for sophisticated hackers  Embedded systems are designed for a specific control function within a larger system, and are commonly used in automotive, medical devices, GPS devices, routers, digital cameras and printers. McAfee Labs expects to see proofs-of-concept codes exploiting embedded systems to become more effective in 2012 and beyond. This will require malware that attacks at the hardware layer, and will enable attacks to gain greater control and maintain long-term access to the system and its data. Sophisticated hackers will then have complete control over hardware. Advances in Operating Systems Moves Hackers u201cDown and Outu201d  New security features baked into the core of the operating system will cause hackers to find alternate entryways: down into the hardware and out of the operating system. Attacking hardware and firmware is not easy, but success allows attackers to create persistent malware in network cards, hard drives and even system BIOS (Basic Input Output System). McAfee Labs expects to see more effort put into hardware and firmware exploits and their related real-world attacks through 2012.  DNSSEC will Drive New Network Threat Vectors  DNSSEC was designed to protect name-resolution services from spoofing and cache poisoning by using a u201cweb of trustu201d based on public-key cryptography to prevent a client computer from inadvertently communicating with a host as a result of a u201cman-in-the-middleu201d attack. Such an attack redirects the traffic from the intended server (Web page, email, etc.) to another server. Unfortunately, DNSSEC would also protect from spoofing and redirection any attempts by authorities seeking to reroute Internet traffic destined to websites that are trafficking in illegal software or images. For a government to redirect traffic, it would need to be considered authoritative from the root-level domains, which is a level of trust that other governing bodies would hesitate to grant if they knew that the result would be the suppression of Internet content based on the opinions of foreign governments. Governing bodies around the globe are taking greater interest in establishing u201crules of the roadu201d for Internet traffic, and McAfee Labs expects to see more and more instances in which future solutions are hampered by legislative issues. The result, McAfee says, is that the Internet of tomorrow will probably look like the Internet of yesterday for a longer time than the security industry would like to see. For the curious, McAfeeu2019s 2012 Threat Predictions report can be downloaded directly here.u00a0 At SecurityWeek, we have put our own fortune-telling abilities to good use and pulled together five interesting predictions of our own with input from some of the security vendors. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c5156cefc41c844ab440" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "On Demand Webcast: "Duqu- Precursor to the Next Stuxnet," Presented by Symantec", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/live-webinar-duqu-precursor-next-stuxnet-1027-presented-symantec", "Date" : "October 25, 2011", "Article" : "This Event is Now Available for On Demand Playback Here:  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c5276cefc41c844ab44b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Microsoft Windows Worm Abuses Weak Password Practices", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/microsoft-windows-worm-abuses-weak-password-practices", "Date" : "August 30, 2011", "Article" : "A new worm targeting Microsoft Windows is squiggling its way around computer networks courtesy of weak passwords.  Dubbed Morto, the worm doesnu2019t use a vulnerability, but instead propagates by compromising Remote Desktop connections on a network through brute forcing attacks. So far, the overall number of detections is relatively low - researchers at F-Secure put the number in the thousands u2013 but reports of increased traffic on port 3389 prompted Microsoft to issue an advisory about the worm Aug. 28. u201cOnce a new system is compromised, it connects to a remote server in order to download additional information and update its components,u201d blogged Hil Gradascevic, a researcher with Microsoftu2019s Malware Protection Center. u201cIt also terminates processes for locally running security applications in order to ensure its activity continues uninterrupted. Affected users should note that a reboot may be required in order to complete the cleaning process.u201d While 74 percent of the computers known to be affected are running Windows XP, infections have also been found on Windows Vista, Windows 7 and Windows Server 2003 and 2008. In a separate blog post, Microsoftu2019s Holly Stewart and Matt McCormack noted Morto attempts to compromise more than just the 'Administrator' account when brute forcing RDP connections with a dictionary attack. It also tests the affected machine's Internet connectivity by attempting to connect to IP 74.125.71.104, an IP owned by a legitimate corporation and believed to be unrelated to malware. If unsuccessful, it then cycles through IP addresses on the affected computer's subnet and attempts to connect to targeted hosts using various usernames such as u201cadminu201d or u201cbackup.u201d Mikko Hypponen, chief research officer at F-Secure, told SecurityWeek that companies looking to protect themselves should make sure their RDP servers are not exposed to public networks by accident. The next step is to ensure strong passwords are being used that canu2019t be cracked by a wordlist or reasonable brute force attack, he added. Marc Maiffret, CTO of eEye, described the worm as reminiscent of older worms such as Slammer and CodeRed, and contended that if u201cthere are companies in this day and age being compromised by Morto, we have bigger problems to worry about than the u201cAPTu201d or Stuxnet.u201d u201cYou should never allow RDP access directly from the Internet, without, at the very least, requiring VPN authentication, before gaining access to corporate servers remotely,u201d he advised. More technical details on the worm  can be found here. Related Resource:u00a0A Practical Approach to Authentication in an Evolving Enterprise Environment " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c5406cefc41c844ab460" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Symantec Report: 286 Million Threats Surfaced in 2010, Sophistication Increases", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/symantec-report-286-million-threats-surfaced-2010-sophistication-increases", "Date" : "April 06, 2011", "Article" : "Symantec this week released its latest Internet Security Threat Report which revealed that more than 286 million new threats, or malicious code, surfaced in 2010. The report showed not only a dramatic increase in frequency of threats, but also an increase in sophistication of targeted attacks on enterprises. Additionally, the report shows that targeted attacks such as Hydraq and Stuxnet posed a growing threat to enterprises in 2010. To increase the likelihood of successful, undetected infiltration into the enterprise, an increasing number of these targeted attacks leveraged zero-day vulnerabilities to break into computer systems. As one example, Stuxnet alone exploited four different zero-day vulnerabilities to attack its targets. "Stuxnet and Hydraq, two of the most visible cyber-events of 2010, represented true incidents of cyberwarfare and have fundamentally changed the threat landscape," said Stephen Trilling, senior vice president, Symantec Security Technology and Response. "The nature of the threats has expanded from targeting individual bank accounts to targeting the information and physical infrastructure of nation states." In 2010, attackers launched targeted attacks against a diverse collection of publicly traded, multinational corporations and government agencies, as well as a surprising number of smaller companies. In many cases, the attackers researched key victims within each corporation and then used tailored social engineering attacks to gain entry into the victims' networks. Due to their targeted nature, many of these attacks succeeded even when victim organizations had basic security measures in place. While the high-profile targeted attacks of 2010 attempted to steal intellectual property or cause physical damage, many targeted attacks preyed on individuals for their personal information. For example, the report found that data breaches caused by hacking resulted in an average of more than 260,000 identities exposed per breach in 2010, nearly quadruple that of any other cause. Key Facts and Figures from Symantecu2019s Internet Security Threat Repor, Volume 16  u2022t286 million new threats -- Polymorphism and new delivery mechanisms such as Web attack toolkits continued to drive up the number of distinct malware programs. In 2010, Symantec encountered more than 286 million unique malicious programs. u2022t93 percent increase in Web-based attacks -- Web attack toolkits drove the 93 percent increase in the volume of Web-based attacks in 2010. The use of shortened URLs also impacted this increase. u2022t260,000 identities exposed per breach -- This is the average number of identities exposed per breach in data breaches caused by hacking during 2010. u2022t14 new zero-day vulnerabilities -- Zero-day vulnerabilities played a key role in targeted attacks including Hydraq and Stuxnet. Stuxnet alone used four different zero-day vulnerabilities. u2022t6,253 new vulnerabilities -- Symantec documented more vulnerabilities in 2010 than in any previous reporting period. u2022t42 percent more mobile vulnerabilities -- In a sign that cybercriminals are starting to focus their efforts on the mobile space, the number of reported new mobile operating system vulnerabilities increased, from 115 in 2009 to 163 in 2010. u2022tOne botnet with more than a million spambots -- Rustock, the largest botnet observed in 2010, had more than one million bots under its control at one point during the year. Other botnets such as Grum and Cutwail followed with many hundreds of thousands of bots each. u2022t74 percent of spam related to pharmaceuticals -- Nearly three quarters of all spam in 2010 was related to pharmaceutical products--a great deal of which was related to pharmaceutical websites and related brands. u2022t$15 per 10,000 bots -- Symantec observed an advertisement that listed the price for 10,000 bot-infected computers as $15 on an underground forum in 2010. Bots are typically used for spam or rogueware campaigns, but are increasingly also used for DDoS attacks. u2022t$0.07 to $100 per credit card -- The price for credit card data on underground forums ranged widely in 2010. Factors dictating prices include the rarity of the card and discounts offered for bulk purchases. Social network platforms continue to grow in popularity and this popularity has not surprisingly attracted a large volume of malware. One of the primary attack techniques used on social networking sites involved the use of shortened URLs. Under typical, legitimate, circumstances, these abbreviated URLs are used to efficiently share a link in an email or on a web page to an otherwise complicated web address. Last year, attackers posted millions of these shortened links on social networking sites to trick victims into both phishing and malware attacks, dramatically increasing the rate of successful infection. The report found that attackers overwhelmingly leveraged the news-feed capabilities provided by popular social networking sites to mass-distribute attacks. In a typical scenario, the attacker logs into a compromised social networking account and posts a shortened link to a malicious website in the victim's status area. The social networking site then automatically distributes the link to news feeds of the victim's friends, spreading the link to potentially hundreds or thousands of victims in minutes. In 2010, 65 percent of malicious links in news feeds observed by Symantec used shortened URLs. Of these, 73 percent were clicked 11 times or more, with 33 percent receiving between 11 and 50 clicks. Attack Toolkits Focus on Java  In 2010, attack toolkits, software programs that can be used by novices and experts alike to facilitate the launch of widespread attacks on networked computers, continued to see widespread use. These kits increasingly target vulnerabilities in the popular Java system, which accounted for 17 percent of all vulnerabilities affecting browser plug-ins in 2010. As a popular cross-browser, multi-platform technology, Java is an appealing target for attackers. The Phoenix toolkit was responsible for the most Web-based attack activity in 2010. This kit, as well as many others, incorporates exploits against Java vulnerabilities. The sixth highest ranked Web-based attack during the reporting period was also an attempt to exploit Java technologies. The number of measured Web-based attacks per day increased by 93 percent in 2010 compared to 2009. Since two-thirds of all Web-based threat activity observed by Symantec is directly attributed to attack kits, these kits are likely responsible for a large part of this increase. Mobile Threat Landscape Comes Into View  The major mobile platforms are finally becoming ubiquitous enough to garner the attention of attackers, and as such, Symantec expects attacks on these platforms to increase. In 2010, most malware attacks against mobile devices took the form of Trojan Horse programs that pose as legitimate applications. While attackers generated some of this malware from scratch, in many cases, they infected users by inserting malicious logic into existing legitimate applications. The attacker then distributed these tainted applications via public app stores. For example, the authors of the recent Pjapps Trojan employed this approach. While the new security architectures employed in today's mobile devices are at least as effective as their desktop and server predecessors, attackers can often bypass these protections by attacking inherent vulnerabilities in the mobile platforms' implementations. Unfortunately, such flaws are relatively commonplace -- Symantec documented 163 vulnerabilities during 2010 that could be used by attackers to gain partial or complete control over devices running popular mobile platforms. In the first few months of 2011 attackers have already leveraged these flaws to infect hundreds of thousands of unique devices. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c5506cefc41c844ab46c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Researchers Predict Advanced, Blended Threats Focused Business and Infrastructure in 2011", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/researchers-predict-targeted-attacks-focused-nationalistic-and-economic-cyberterrorism-2011", "Date" : "November 10, 2010", "Article" : "Researchers Predict Advanced, Blended Threats, Laser-Focused on Attacking Business and Infrastructure Web security researchers say that recent evidence and metrics suggest that cybercriminals and their blended attacks are having a field day taking advantage of security gaps left open by legacy technologies like firewalls, antivirus, and simple URL blockers. The researchers are also saying that the latest tactics have moved to a political -- and nationalistic u2013 stage, and that 2011 will bring blended threats and data loss over the Web that demonstrate the potential for targeted cyberterrorism attacks.  These conclusions come from the Websense 2010 Threat Report, and are based on the analysis of Websense Security Labs researchers, who rely on the ThreatSeeker Network, which every hour scans more than 40 million websites for malicious code and nearly 10 million emails for unwanted content and malicious code. The report emphasizes that in today's threat landscape, legacy defenses simply don't work. We all have antivirus, firewalls and proxies installed, but that isn't enough. Threats are no longer binary files delivered in attachments, they are script-based attacks and they are embedded in rich media like Flash. And many spread rapidly on the social Web. Reputation filters provide zero security for threats delivered via top "legitimate" websites like Google, Facebook, and YouTube, where 80 percent of Web traffic goes. Cybercriminals know that legacy technology simply looks for known information (signatures) or reputation of previously identified threats, which is why they are so successful at exploiting existing defenses. Most of today's blended attacks are considered "zero-day," in that they have not been previously identified. They are ever-evolving and pre-tested by cybercriminals on common anti-virus products before they are released. These threats sail through firewalls and open channels.u00a0Cybercriminals and business leaders have quickly come to realize that data is the newest form of global currency.u00a0 u201cEmail brings the problem to your doorstep and 75% of the time AV will let it in for dinner. This is why more advanced security analytics are required than just signatures,u201d said Jon Crotty, Websense Research Marketing Manager. "The continued rise of organized cybercriminal gangs and the emergence of targeted advanced malware threats are the most concerning trend we've seen," said Dan Hubbard, chief technology officer, Websense. "Security needs to move ahead of the attackers and focus on contextual classification in order to thwart them. Simple binary access controls and castle and moat security will not solve the complex attacks we see today.u201d Modern blended threats such as Aurora, Stuxnet, and Zeus infiltrate organizations through a variety of coordinated tactics, usually a combination of two or more. Phishing, compromised websites, and social networking are carefully coordinated to steal confidential data, because in the world of cybercrime, content equals cash. In 2010, cybercriminals adapted their strategies to address the social websites and sites with dynamic user-generated content. Attacks are now more blended, sophisticated, and targeted. Many of these attacks use new tricks and methods of delivery. Script-based attacks, blended email campaigns, and SEO poisoning were all common in 2010. Even the most easily detected threats and botnets were successfully repurposed with variations that often allow them to slip through outdated defenses. The majority of attacks in 2010 focused on the same thing: stealing data. Significant findings from the Websense 2010 Threat Report affirm that while broad threats continue, focused, targeted attacks are on the rise.  Key Findings include:  u2022t111.4 percent increase in the number of malicious websites from 2009 to 2010 u2022t79.9 percent of websites with malicious code were legitimate sites that have been compromised u2022t52 percent of data-stealing attacks were conducted over the Web u2022t34 percent of malicious Web/HTTP attacks included data-stealing code u2022t89.9 percent of all unwanted emails in circulation during this period contained links to spam sites and/or malicious websites u2022t23 percent of real-time search results on entertainment lead to a malicious link u2022t40 percent of all Facebook status updates have links and 10 percent of those links are either spam or malicious "Whether it is your company's sensitive financial information, your social networking, or online banking credentials, that content has tremendous value," said Devin Redmond, vice president of Business Development, Product Management and Marketing, Websense. The report concludes that data loss prevention solutions are no longer a u201cnice to haveu201d option but should be considered a core requirement, and real world examples of situations like WikiLeaks highlight this. Real-time social networking sites will continue to dominate the landscape, the report says. Hackers will continue to mix social engineering tricks with modern blended threats making the Web more complicated than ever before.u00a0The continued consumerization of mobile devices such as iPhones and Android devices and the increasing amounts of financial data that touch these devices make them ripe future targets. The report also warns that mobile applications will open the door for unintended security vulnerabilities. The report, along with videos and additional materials can be viewed online (registration required) at: u00a0http://www.websense.com/2010threatreport " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c57a6cefc41c844ab48e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "MiniDuke Attack Leveraged IE, Java Exploits", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/miniduke-attack-leveraged-ie-java-exploits", "Date" : "March 11, 2013", "Article" : "Researchers at Kaspersky Lab and Crysys Lab have discovered two previously-unknown infections mechanisms for MiniDuke, the cyber-espionage malware linked to attacks across the globe. According to their analysis, the new infection vectors leverage vulnerabilities in Java and Internet Explorer. u00a0Specifically, a webpage serves "JavaApplet.class", which implements a Java exploit for CVE-2013-0422. The code of the exploit is similar to the one published in the Metasploit kit, but the inner class that disables the security manager is encoded differently u2013 most likely to avoid detection, explained Igor Soumenkov of Kaspersky Lab in a blog. Internet Explorer 8 users are targeted using CVE-2012-4792, which was patched in January. "The exploits are located in separate web pages," the researcher blogged. "Clients using Internet Explorer version 8 are served with "about.htm", for other versions of the browser and for any other browser capable of running Java applets, the JavaScript code loads "JavaApplet.html"." The finding is the latest twist in the discovery of MiniDuke, which has been linked to attacks against government agencies in countries such as the Ukraine, Belgium, Ireland, Portugal, Romania and the Czech Republic. A Hungarian research foundation as well as two think-tanks and a healthcare provider in the U.S. were also compromised. Last week, researchers found that a variant of the malware dates back to at least June 2011, predating the version researchers initially found. "It is very sophisticated in terms of coding skill and social engineering," Razvan Stoica, communication specialist at BitDefender Labs, told SecurityWeek. "It is very simple also, in that it doesn't have nearly as many "moving parts" as, say, Stuxnet." u00a0Though the exploits mentioned above were already known and published at the time of the attack, they were still very recent and could have worked against any designated targets, Soumenkov wrote. "Although the exploits were already known and published at the time of the attack, they were still very recent and could have worked against designated targets," the researcher blogged. "As previously recommended, updating Windows, Java and Adobe Reader to the latest versions should provide a basic level of defense against the known MiniDuke attacks. Of course, it is possible that other unknown infection vectors exist; we will continue to monitor the situation and update the blog with new data when appropriate." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c5f26cefc41c844ab4d3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Autorun-Based Threats Caused 12% of Malware Infections in Q1 2012, Says Bitdefender", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/autorun-based-threats-caused-12-malware-infections-q1-2012-says-bitdefender", "Date" : "May 01, 2012", "Article" : "USB-based Threats Persist Despite Years of Software Updates  According to numbers coming from Internet security firm Bitdefender, Autorun-based threats, which typically spread via infected USB sticks, were responsible for 12 percent of global infections in the first quarter of 2012. Despite the fact that the Autorun feature was eliminated from operating systems in Windows Vista SP1 in 2008, worms that take advantage of the feature continue to infect systems worldwide. "The magnitude of this threat -- so many years after it should have disappeared -- is astonishing," said Catalin Cosoi, chief security researcher, Bitdefender. "Some of the heavy-hitters of the virus world, such as Downadup and Stuxnet, spread this way -- prevention should be a simple matter." The mass introduction of USB storage devices and the apparition of the Autorun feature in Windows have been widely exploited since the early 2000s. Within five years, Autorun worms reached epidemic proportions autorun-based threats have dominated the malware landscape report since. "You never know for certain where a USB stick may have been. It is worth making a habit of checking your portable drives," said Adina Jipa, product marketing manager at Bitdefender USB. In order to help address the threat, Bitdefender, has released a new version of its USB Immunizer, which helps protect against autorun-related threats. In addition to announcing the tool, the Bucharest, Romania-based firm shared 5 facts about Autorun-based malware: 1 - The Autorun.inf file is not malicious itself. It is used by some families of malware that copy themselves on USB sticks to force the computer to automatically execute them when an infected stick is plugged into a Windows-based PC. 2 - Among the most important families of malware that use the Autorun exploitation to spread are Stuxnet, Downadup, Sality, Rimecud or OnlineGames. 3 - Autorun-based malware can copy itself on MP3/MP4 players, mobile phones, SD cards (such as those in digital cameras) and other devices. When plugged in other PCs, the malware is executed automatically. 4 - Since autorun.inf files are plain-text files that can be opened and analyzed, malware creators obfuscate their creations to make them unreadable by humans. However, this is also their weak point. This degree of obfuscation is uncommon in text files and triggers AV detection. 5 - Trojan.AutorunInf (a detection that intercepts rogue autorun.inf files) has been the number one source of infection for more than three years in a row. During this time, it has helped various malware families infect millions of computers worldwide. Bitdefender USB Immunizer is available here. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bcfa6cefc42b00293498" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "TRITON Malware Targeting Critical Infrastructure Could Cause Physical Damage", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/12/triton-ics-scada-malware.html", "Date" : "2017-12-14T21:49:00-11:00", "Article" : "Security researchers have uncovered another nasty piece of malware designed specifically to target industrial control systems (ICS) with a potential to cause health and life-threatening accidents. Dubbed Triton, also known as Trisis, the ICS malware has been designed to target Triconex Safety Instrumented System (SIS) controllers made by Schneider Electricu2014an autonomous control system that independently monitors the performance of critical systems and takes immediate actions automatically, if a dangerous state is detected. Researchers from the Mandiant division of security firm FireEye published a report on Thursday, suggesting state-sponsored attackers used the Triton malware to cause physical damage to an organization. Neither the targeted organization name has been disclosed by the researchers nor they have linked the attack to any known nation-state hacking group. According to separate research conducted by ICS cybersecurity firm Dragos, which calls this malware "TRISIS," the attack was launched against an industrial organization in the Middle East. Triton leverages the proprietary TriStation protocol, which is an engineering and maintenance tool used by Triconex SIS products and is not publicly documented, suggesting that the attackers reverse engineered it when creating their malware. "The attacker gained remote access to an SIS engineering workstation and deployed the TRITON attack framework to reprogram the SIS controllers," FireEye researchers said. The hackers deployed Triton on an SIS engineering workstation running Windows operating system by masquerading it as the legitimate Triconex Trilog application. The current version of TRITON malware that researchers analyzed was built with many features, u201cincluding the ability to read and write programs, read and write individual functions and query the state of the SIS controller.u201d "During the incident, some SIS controllers entered a failed safe state, which automatically shut down the industrial process and prompted the asset owner to initiate an investigation," the researchers said. Using TRITON, an attacker can typically reprogram the SIS logic to falsely shut down a process that is actuality in a safe state. Though such scenario would not cause any physical damage, organizations can face financial losses due to process downtime. Besides this, attackers can also cause severe life-threatening damages by reprogramming the SIS logic to allow unsafe conditions to persist or by intentionally manipulating the processes to achieve unsafe state first. "The attacker deployed TRITON shortly after gaining access to the SIS system, indicating that they had pre-built and tested the tool which would require access to hardware and software that is not widely available." Researchers believe Triton is emerging as a severe threat to critical infrastructures, just like Stuxnet, IronGate, and Industroyer, because of its capabilities to cause physical damage or shut down operations. Researchers at Symantec have also provided a brief analysis here." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bd316cefc42b002934a8" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "The Rise of Super-Stealthy Digitally Signed Malwareu2014Thanks to the Dark Web", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/11/malware-digital-certificate.html", "Date" : "2017-11-05T22:09:00-11:00", "Article" : "Guess what's more expensive than counterfeit United States passports, stolen credit cards and even guns on the dark web? It's digital code signing certificates. A recent study conducted by the Cyber Security Research Institute (CSRI) this week revealed that stolen digital code-signing certificates are readily available for anyone to purchase on the dark web for up to $1,200. As you may know, digital certificates issued by a trusted certificate authority (CA) are used to cryptographically sign computer applications and software, and are trusted by your computer for execution of those programs without any warning messages. However, malware author and hackers who are always in search of advanced techniques to bypass security solutions have been abusing trusted digital certificates during recent years. Hackers use compromised code signing certificates associated with trusted software vendors in order to sign their malicious code, reducing the possibility of their malware being detected on targeted enterprise networks and consumer devices. The infamous Stuxnet worm that targeted Iranian nuclear processing facilities in 2003 also used legitimate digital certificates. Also, the recent CCleaner-tainted downloads infection was made possible due to digitally-signed software update. Stealthy Digitally-Signed Malware Is Increasingly Prevalent However, separate research conducted by a team of security researchers have found that digitally signed malware has become much more common than previously thought. The trio researchersu2014Doowon Kim, BumJun Kwon and Tudor Dumitras from the University of Maryland, College Parku2014said they found a total of 325 signed malware samples, of which 189 (58.2%) carried valid digital signatures while 136 carry malformed digital signatures. "Such malformed signatures are useful for an adversary: we find that simply copying an Authenticode signature from a legitimate sample to an unsigned malware sample may help the malware bypass AV detection," the researchers said. Those 189 malware samples signed correctly were generated using 111 compromised unique certificates issued by recognized CAs and used to sign legitimate software. At the time of writing, 27 of these compromised certificates had been revoked, although malware signed by one of the remaining 84 certificates that were not revoked would still be trusted as long as carry a trusted timestamp. "A large fraction (88.8%) of malware families rely on a single certificate, which suggests that the abusive certificates are mostly controlled by the malware authors rather than by third parties," the trio said. The researchers have released a list of the abusive certificates at signedmalware.org. Revoking Stolen Certificate Doesn't Stop Malware Immediately Even when a signature is not valid, the researchers found that at least 34 anti-virus products failed to check the certificate's validity, eventually allowing malicious code to run on the targeted system. The researchers also conducted an experiment to determine if malformed signatures can affect the anti-virus detections. To demonstrate this, they downloaded 5 random unsigned ransomware samples that almost all anti-virus programs detected as malicious. The trio then took two expired certificates that previously had been used to sign both legitimate software and in-the-wild malware and used them to sign each of the five ransomware samples. Top Antivirus Fail to Detect Malware Signed With Stolen Certificates When analysing the resulting ten new samples, the researchers found that many anti-virus products failed to detect the malware as malicious. The top three anti-virus productsu2014nProtect, Tencent, and Paloaltou2014detected unsigned ransomware samples as malware, but considered eight of out ten crafted samples as benign. Even popular anti-virus engines from Kaspersky Labs, Microsoft, TrendMicro, Symantec, and Commodo, failed to detect some of the known malicious samples. Other affected anti-virus packages included CrowdStrike, Fortinet, Avira, Malwarebytes, SentinelOne, Sophos, TrendMicro and Qihoo, among others. "We believe that this [inability in detecting malware samples] is due to the fact that AVs take digital signatures into account when filter and prioritize the list of files to scan, in order to reduce the overhead imposed on the useru2019s host," the researchers said. "However, the incorrect implementation of Authenticode signature checks in many AVs gives malware authors the opportunity to evade detection with a simple and inexpensive method." The researchers said they reported this issue to the affected antivirus companies, and one of them had confirmed that their product fails to check the signatures correctly and they had planned to fix the issue. The researchers presented their findings at the Computer and Communications Security (CCS) conference in Dallas on Wednesday. For more detailed information on the research, you can head on to their research paper [PDF] titled "Certified Malware: Measuring Breaches of Trust in the Windows Code-Signing PKI."" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bda96cefc42b002934d0" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "WikiLeaks Reveals CIA Teams Up With Tech to Collect Ideas For Malware Development", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/07/cia-malware-development.html", "Date" : "2017-07-19T00:08:00-11:00", "Article" : "As part of its ongoing Vault 7 leaks, the whistleblower organisation WikiLeaks today revealed about a CIA contractor responsible for analysing advanced malware and hacking techniques being used in the wild by cyber criminals. According to the documents leaked by WikiLeaks, Raytheon Blackbird Technologies, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) contractor, submitted nearly five such reports to CIA as part of UMBRAGE Component Library (UCL) project between November 2014 and September 2015. These reports contain brief analysis about proof-of-concept ideas and malware attack vectors u2014 publically presented by security researchers and secretly developed by cyber espionage hacking groups. Reports submitted by Raytheon were allegedly helping CIA's Remote Development Branch (RDB) to collect ideas for developing their own advanced malware projects. It was also revealed in previous Vault 7 leaks that CIA's UMBRAGE malware development teams also borrow codes from publicly available malware samples to built its own spyware tools. Here's the list and brief information of each report: Report 1 u2014 Raytheon analysts detailed a variant of the HTTPBrowser Remote Access Tool (RAT), which was probably developed in 2015. The RAT, which is designed to capture keystrokes from the targeted systems, was being used by a Chinese cyber espionage APT group called 'Emissary Panda.' Report 2 u2014 This document details a variant of the NfLog Remote Access Tool (RAT), also known as IsSpace, which was being used by Samurai Panda, Identified as another Chinese hacking group. Equipped with Adobe Flash zero-day exploit CVE-2015-5122 (leaked in Hacking Team dump) and UAC bypass technique, this malware was also able to sniff or enumerate proxy credentials to bypass Windows Firewall. Report 3 u2014 This report contains details about "Regin" -- a very sophisticated malware sample that has been spotted in operation since 2013 and majorly designed for surveillance and data collection. Regin is a cyber espionage tool, which is said to be more sophisticated than both Stuxnet and Duqu and is believed to be developed by the US intelligence agency NSA. The malware uses a modular approach that allowed an operator to enable a customised spying. Regin's design makes the malware highly suited for persistent, long-term mass surveillance operations against targets. Report 4 u2014 It details a suspected Russian State-sponsored malware sample called "HammerToss," which was discovered in early 2015 and suspected of being operational since late 2014. What makes HammerToss interesting is its architecture, which leverages Twitter accounts, GitHub accounts, compromised websites, and Cloud-storage to orchestrate command-and-control functions to execute the commands on the targeted systems. Report 5 u2014 This document details the self-code injection and API hooking methods of information stealing Trojan called "Gamker." Gamker uses simple decryption, then drops a copy of itself using a random filename and injects itself into a different process. The trojan also exhibits other typical trojan behaviours. Previous Vault 7 CIA Leaks Last week, WikiLeaks revealed CIAs Highrise Project that allowed the spying agency to stealthy collect and forwards stolen data from compromised smartphones to its server through SMS messages. Since March, the whistle-blowing group has published 17 batches of "Vault 7" series, which includes the latest and last week leaks, along with the following batches: BothanSpy and Gyrfalcon u2014 two alleged CIA implants that allowed the spying agency to intercept and exfiltrate SSH credentials from targeted Windows and Linux operating systems using different attack vectors. OutlawCountry u2013 An alleged CIA project that allowed it to hack and remotely spy on computers running the Linux operating systems. ELSA u2013 the alleged CIA malware that tracks geo-location of targeted PCs and laptops running the Microsoft Windows operating system. Brutal Kangaroo u2013 A tool suite for Microsoft Windows used by the agency to targets closed networks or air-gapped computers within an organisation or enterprise without requiring any direct access. Cherry Blossom u2013 An agency's framework, basically a remotely controllable firmware-based implant, used for monitoring the Internet activity of the targeted systems by exploiting vulnerabilities in Wi-Fi devices. Pandemic u2013 A CIA's project that allowed the agency to turn Windows file servers into covert attack machines that can silently infect other computers of interest inside a targeted network. Athena u2013 A CIA's spyware framework that has been designed to take full control over the infected Windows PCs remotely, and works against every version of Microsoft's Windows operating systems, from Windows XP to Windows 10. AfterMidnight and Assassin u2013 Two alleged CIA malware frameworks for the Microsoft Windows platform that has been designed to monitor and report back actions on the infected remote host computer and execute malicious actions. Archimedes u2013 Man-in-the-middle (MitM) attack tool allegedly created by the CIA to target computers inside a Local Area Network (LAN). Scribbles u2013 A piece of software allegedly designed to embed 'web beacons' into confidential documents, allowing the spying agency to track insiders and whistleblowers. Grasshopper u2013 Framework that allowed the spying agency to easily create custom malware for breaking into Microsoft's Windows and bypassing antivirus protection. Marble u2013 Source code of a secret anti-forensic framework, basically an obfuscator or a packer used by the CIA to hide the actual source of its malware. Dark Matter u2013 Hacking exploits the agency designed to target iPhones and Macs. Weeping Angel u2013 Spying tool used by the agency to infiltrate smart TV's, transforming them into covert microphones. Year Zero u2013 Alleged CIA hacking exploits for popular hardware and software." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35be056cefc42b002934db" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Dangerous Malware Discovered that Can Take Down Electric Power Grids", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/06/electric-power-grid-malware.html", "Date" : "2017-06-12T04:03:00-11:00", "Article" : "Last December, a cyber attack on Ukrainian Electric power grid caused the power outage in the northern part of Kiev u2014 the country's capital u2014 and surrounding areas, causing a blackout for tens of thousands of citizens for an hour and fifteen minutes around midnight. Now, security researchers have discovered the culprit behind those cyber attacks on the Ukrainian industrial control systems. Slovakia-based security software maker ESET and US critical infrastructure security firm Dragos Inc. say they have discovered a new dangerous piece of malware in the wild that targets critical industrial control systems and is capable of causing blackouts. Dubbed "Industroyer" or "CrashOverRide," the grid-sabotaging malware was likely to be used in the December 2016 cyber attack against Ukrainian electric utility Ukrenergo, which the security firms say represents a dangerous advancement in critical infrastructure hacking. According to the researchers, CrashOverRide is the biggest threat designed to disrupt industrial control systems, after Stuxnet u2014 the first malware allegedly developed by the US and Israel to sabotage the Iranian nuclear facilities in 2009. This Malware Does Not Exploit Any Software Flaw Unlike Stuxnet worm, the CrashOverRide malware does not exploit any "zero-day" software vulnerabilities to do its malicious activities; instead, it relies on four industrial communication protocols used worldwide in power supply infrastructure, transportation control systems, and other critical infrastructure systems. The CrashOverRide malware can control electricity substation' switches and circuit breakers, designed decades ago, allowing an attacker to simply turning off power distribution, cascading failures and causing more severe damage to equipment. Industroyer malware is a backdoor that first installs four payload components to take control of switches and circuit breakers; and then connects to a remote command-and-control server to receive commands from the attackers. "Industroyer payloads show the authors' in-depth knowledge and understanding of industrial control systems." ESET researchers explain. "The malware contains a few more features that are designed to enable it to remain under the radar, to ensure the malware's persistence, and to wipe all traces of itself after it has done its job." Since there have been four malware discovered in the wild to date that target industrial control systems, including Stuxnet, Havex, BlackEnergy, and CrashOverRide; Stuxnet and CrashOverRide were designed only for sabotage, while BlackEnergy and Havex were meant for conducting espionage. "The functionality in the CRASHOVERRIDE framework serves no espionage purpose and the only real feature of the malware is for attacks which would lead to electric outages," reads Dragos analysis [PDF] of the malware. Malware Can Cause Wider and Longer-Lasting Blackouts The analysis of the malware suggests CrashOverRide could cause power outages far more widespread, sophisticated and longer lasting than the one Ukraine suffered last December. Dragos CEO Robert M. Lee said the CrashOverRide malware is capable of causing power outages that can last up to a few days in portions of a country's electric grid, but it is not capable enough to bring down the entire grid of a nation. The malware includes interchangeable, plug-in components that could allow CrashOverRide to be altered to different electric power utilities or even launched simultaneous attacks on multiple targets. "CrashOverRide is not unique to any particular vendor or configuration and instead leverages knowledge of grid operations and network communications to cause impact; in that way, it can be immediately re-purposed in Europe and portions of the Middle East and Asia," Dragos' paper reads. "CrashOverRide is extensible and with a small amount of tailoring such as the inclusion of a DNP3 [Distributed Network Protocol 3] protocol stack would also be effective in the North American grid." According to the researchers, the malware can be modified to target other types of critical infrastructure, like transportation, gas lines, or water facilities, as well with additional protocol modules. The security firms have already alerted government authorities and power grid companies about the dangerous threat, along with some advises that could help them to defend against this threat. The security firms already argued that the 2016 power outage was likely caused by the same group of hackers who caused 2015 blackout u2014 Sandworm, a state-sponsored hacking group believed to be from Russia. Dragos tracked the perpetrators behind CrashOverRide as Electrum and assessed "with high confidence through confidential sources that Electrum has direct ties to the Sandworm team." The security firms have already alerted government authorities and power grid companies about the dangerous threat, along with some advises that could help them to defend against this threat." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35be816cefc42b002934fb" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Malware Hijacks Microphones to Spy On Ukrainian Businesses, Scientists and Media", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/02/ukraine-russia-hacking_20.html", "Date" : "2017-02-20T21:50:00-11:00", "Article" : "Ukraine has once again been a target of a potential hacking attack that infected computer systems from dozens of Ukrainian businesses with highly sophisticated malware, allowing hackers to exfiltrate sensitive data and eavesdrop on their network. Late last year, the country also suffered a power outage caused by the same group of hackers that targeted Ukraine's power grid with the BlackEnergy malware in late 2015, causing 225,000 residents to lose electricity. Now security researchers from threat intelligence firm CyberX have uncovered an advanced malware-based operation that has already siphoned over 600 gigabytes of data from about 70 victim organizations, including critical infrastructure, news media, and scientific research. Operation BugDrop: Damages and Modus Operandi Dubbed "Operation BugDrop," the large-scale malware campaign has been perpetrated against targets in the Ukraine, though targets from other countries include Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Austria. CyberX researchers did not identify the clandestine hacking collective but said Operation BugDrop was believed to be the work of highly skilled, government-backed nation-state hackers with nearly limitless resources. "Operation BugDrop is a well-organized operation that employs sophisticated malware and appears to be backed by an organization with substantial resources," reads the CyberX blog post published Wednesday. "In particular, the operation requires a massive back-end infrastructure to store, decrypt, and analyze several GB per day of unstructured data that is being captured from its targets. A large team of human analysts is also required to manually sort through captured data and process it manually and/or with Big Data-like analytics."Here's What the Malware Does: Operation BugDrop uses sophisticated malware that has been designed to infiltrate the victim's computer and capture screen shots, documents, and passwords, and turn on the PC's microphone to capture audio recordings of all conversations. The mysterious hacking group infects victims using malicious Microsoft Word documents sent in phishing emails. Once infected, the compromised PCs send the pilfered audio and data to Dropbox, where the hackers retrieve it. Since the malware uses PC microphones to bug targets and then send the audio and other data files to Dropbox, the researchers have dubbed the malware campaign Operation BugDrop. Here's How BugDrop Work:The hackers spread the malware through phishing emails containing Microsoft Office file attachments that include malicious macros embedded in it. Once the targets open the malware-laden Word document, the hidden, malicious Visual Basic scripts start running in a temporary folder in the background. The main module of BugDrop downloads the various data-stealing plugins to infected machines and executes them. All the stolen data the malware collects is then uploaded to Dropbox. Although BugDrop has mainly been designed to record audio files, the malware can also steal the documents, password and other sensitive data from the computer's browsers. Techniques BugDrop Use to Avoid Detection: The main malware downloader has low detection rates as: The malware makes the audio data look like legitimate outgoing traffic. BugDrop encrypts the DLLs that are installed to avoid detection by traditional anti-virus and sandboxing systems. The malware uses public cloud service Dropbox. BugDrop also uses Reflective DLL (Dynamic Link Library) Injection, a malware injection technique that had also been leveraged by the BlackEnergy malware used in the Ukrainian power grid attacks and the Duqu malware in the Stuxnet attacks on Iranian nuclear facilities. Reflective DLL Injection is used to load malicious code and effectively sidestep security verification procedures without calling the standard Windows API. Targets of BugDrop: The malware has targeted a wide range of industries including critical infrastructures, research centers in Ukraine and media organizations. According to CyberX, BugDrop's primary target has been Ukraine, but it has also been traced to other parts of Russia, Saudi Arabia, and Austria. Operation BugDrop targets identified by the CyberX researchers so far include: A firm that designs remote monitoring systems for oil and gas pipeline infrastructures. An engineering firm that designs electrical substations, water supply plants and gas distribution pipelines. An international organization that monitors counter-terrorism, human rights, and cyber attacks on critical infrastructure in the Ukraine. A scientific research institute. Editors of Ukrainian newspapers. While concluding the report, CyberX said both private and public sector organizations need to be more vigilant in monitoring their networks and applying more modern technologies like behavioral analytics to identify and quickly respond to these increasingly sophisticated cyber attacks." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35be886cefc42b002934fd" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "This Ransomware Malware Could Poison Your Water Supply If Not Paid", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/02/scary-scada-ransomware.html", "Date" : "2017-02-16T22:14:00-11:00", "Article" : "Ransomware has been around for a few years, but in last two years, it has become an albatross around everyone's neck, targeting businesses, hospitals, financial institutions and personal computers worldwide and extorting millions of dollars. Ransomware is a type of malware that infects computers and encrypts their content with strong encryption algorithms, and then demands a ransom to decrypt that data. It turned out to be a noxious game of Hackers to get paid effortlessly. Initially, ransomware used to target regular internet users, but in past few months, we have already seen the threat targeting enterprises, educational facilities, and hospitals, hotels, and other businesses. And now, the threat has gone Worse! This PoC Ransomware Could Poison Water Supply! Researchers at the Georgia Institute of Technology (GIT) have demonstrated the capability of ransomware to take down the critical infrastructure our cities need to operate, causing havoc among people. GIT researchers created a proof-of-concept ransomware that, in a simulated environment, was able to gain control of a water treatment plant and threaten to shut off the entire water supply or poison the city's water by increasing the amount of chlorine in it. Dubbed LogicLocker, the ransomware, presented at the 2017 RSA Conference in San Francisco, allowed researchers to alter Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) u2014 the tiny computers that control critical Industrial Control Systems (ICS) and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) infrastructure, like power plants or water treatment facilities. This, in turn, gave them the ability to shut valves, control the amount of chlorine in the water, and display false readouts. Sounds scary, Right? Fortunately, this has not happened yet, but researchers say this is only a matter of time. The simulated attack by researchers was created to highlight how attackers could disrupt vital services which cater to our critical needs, like water management utilities, energy providers, escalator controllers, HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning) systems, and other mechanical systems. Over 1500 PLC Systems Open To Ransomware Attack LogicLocker targets three types of PLCs that are exposed online and infects them to reprogram the tiny computer with a new password, locking the legitimate owners out and demanding ransom while holding the utility hostage. If the owners pay, they get their control over the PLC back. But if not, the hackers could malfunction water plant, or worse, dump life-threatening amounts of chlorine in water supplies that could potentially poison entire cities. GIT researchers searched the internet for the two models of PLCs that they targeted during their experiment and found more than 1,500 PLCs that were exposed online. "There are common misconceptions about what is connected to the internet," says researcher David Formby. "Operators may believe their systems are air-gapped and that there's no way to access the controllers, but these systems are often connected in some way." Targeting industrial control and SCADA systems is not new, cybercriminals and nation-state actors are doing this for years, with programs like Stuxnet, Flame, and Duqu, but ransomware will soon add a financial element to these type of cyber attacks. Therefore, it is inevitable that money-motivated criminals will soon target critical infrastructure directly. Additionally, the nation-state actors could also hide their intentions under ransomware operators. So, it is high time for industrial control systems and SCADA operators to start adopting standard security practices like changing the PLCs default passwords, limiting their connections by placing them behind a firewall, scanning their networks for potential threats, and install intrusion monitoring systems." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35beab6cefc42b0029350b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Hackers Suspected of Causing Second Power Outage in Ukraine", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2016/12/power-outage-ukraine.html", "Date" : "2016-12-20T21:49:00-11:00", "Article" : "The same group of hackers that caused the power outage across several regions in Ukraine last Christmas holidays might have once again shut down power supply in northern Ukraine during the weekend. According to Ukrainian energy provider Ukrenergo, a cyber attack on Kyiv's power grid may have caused the power outages in the country on Saturday, December 17, near midnight. The blackout affected the northern part of Kiev, the country's capital, and surrounding areas, Ukrenergo Director Vsevolod Kovalchuk explained in a post on Facebook. Shortly after the incident, Ukrenergo engineers switched to manual mode and started restoring power in approximately 30 minutes in an effort to deal with the cyber attack. Power was fully restored after just an hour and fifteen minutes of the blackout. According to Kovalchuk, the one responsible for the weekend outage could be an "external interference through data network," however, the company's cybersecurity experts are investigating the incident and will provide more information soon. Although the reason for the outage is not yet confirmed, authorities believe that the unexpected power outage could be the latest in the series of cyber attacks that managed to strike the Ukrainian electric grid and financial infrastructure in December 2015. The 2015 energy blackouts were caused with the help of a malware attack, known as BlackEnergy, which was distributed through boobytrapped Word documents and tricked recipients into enabling macros to activate the malicious payload. Last year, the Ukraine's state security service SBU blamed Russia for causing outages by planting malware on the networks of several regional energy companies. Also, the United States Cyber firm iSight Partners identified the perpetrator as a Russian group of hackers known as "Sandworm." While security experts have found no hard evidence that links these attacks on Ukrainian energy grid to Russia, they believe that the attackers appear to be a nation state with significant resources. SCADA system has always been an attractive target for cybercrooks, given the success of Stuxnet malware that was developed by the US and Israeli together to sabotage the Iranian nuclear facilities a few years ago, and "Havex" that previously targeted organizations in the energy sector." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35befc6cefc42b00293522" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Beware u2014 Someone is dropping Malware-infected USB Sticks into People's Letterbox", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2016/09/usb-malware.html", "Date" : "2016-09-22T00:34:00-11:00", "Article" : "Hey! Wait! Wait! Wait! Don't plug in that USB stick into your laptop. It could infect your computer with malware and viruses. Australia's Victoria Police Force has issued a warning regarding unmarked USB flash drives containing harmful malware being dropped inside random people's letterboxes in the Melbourne suburb of Pakenham. It seems to one of the latest tactics of cyber criminals to target people by dropping malware-laden USB sticks into their mailboxes, in the hope unsuspecting users will plug the infected devices into their personal or home computers. The warning, published on the official website of the Victoria Police, one of Australia's state police departments, reads: "Members of the public are allegedly finding unmarked USB drives in their letterboxes. Upon inserting the USB drives into their computers victims have experienced fraudulent media streaming service offers, as well as other serious issues [malware]. The USB drives are believed to be extremely harmful and members of the public are urged to avoid plugging them into their computers or other devices." The warning comes after a recent flood of reports from residents in the suburb of Pakenham who found compromised unmarked drives in their mailboxes and inserted them into their computers. Although the police did not provide any further detail on the type of malware on the drives or whether the victims were served ransomware demands on running the malicious code on the drives, this is no surprise to us that some people plugged in the drives into their PCs. Cyber Criminals are Leveraging Human Psychology A study conducted by a group of researchers from the University of Illinois, the University of Michigan and Google revealed that nearly half of people would not only plug a USB drive they've found on the ground into their PCs, but would also open files and click on unfamiliar links. The worst part is that people don't make this blunder unknowingly because it has long been known that USB drives can carry and transfer destructive malware and viruses to your computers, perhaps the most infamous example of it was the Stuxnet worm. The Stuxnet sabotage malware was allegedly designed by the U.S. and Israel to disrupt Iran's nuclear facility and destroyed its uranium enrichment centrifuges in 2010. The infection is believed to have been carried through an infected USB stick. Keeping this human psychology in mind, just last month a Hong Kong-based company started selling a USB stick, dubbed USB Kill v2, that can fry any computer it's plugged into. So, next time when you find any USB drive or receive it in the post, show more caution and make sure you don't plug it into your laptop or computer." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bf0e6cefc42b00293528" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "NSA's Hacking Group Hacked! Bunch of Private Hacking Tools Leaked Online", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2016/08/nsa-hacking-tools.html", "Date" : "2016-08-15T06:36:00-11:00", "Article" : "It seems like the NSA has been HACKED! Update: The NSA Hack u2014 What, When, Where, How, Who & Why? Explained Here. An unknown hacker or a group of hackers just claimed to have hacked into "Equation Group" -- a cyber-attack group allegedly associated with the United States intelligence organization NSA -- and dumped a bunch of its hacking tools (malware, private exploits, and hacking tools) online. I know, it is really hard to believe, but some cybersecurity experts who have been examining the leak data, exploits and hacking tools, believe it to be legitimate. Hacker Demands $568 Million in Bitcoin to Leak All Tools and Data Not just this, the hackers, calling themselves "The Shadow Brokers," are also asking for 1 Million Bitcoins (around $568 Million) in an auction to release the 'best' cyber weapons and more files. Also Read: Links Found between NSA, Regin Spy tool and QWERTY Keylogger Widely believed to be part of the NSA, Equation Group was described as "a threat actor that surpasses anything known in terms of complexity and sophistication of techniques, and that has been active for almost two decades," according to a report published by security firm Kaspersky in 2015. Equation Group was also linked to the previous infamous Regin and Stuxnet attacks, allegedly the United States sponsored hacks, though the link was never absolutely proven. Two days back, The Shadow Brokers released some files, which it claimed came from the Equation Group, on Github (deleted) and Tumblr. Exploits for American & Chinese Firewalls Leaked: The files mostly contained installation scripts, configurations for command-and-control (C&C) servers, and exploits allegedly designed to target routers and firewalls from American manufacturers including, Cisco, Juniper, and Fortinet. According to the leaked files, Chinese company 'Topsec' was also an Equation Group target. The leak mentioned names of some of the hacking tools that correlate with names used in the documents leaked by whistleblower Edward Snowden, like "BANANAGLEE" and "EPICBANANA." "We follow Equation Group traffic," says the Shadow Broker. "We find Equation Group source range. We hack Equation Group. We find many many Equation Group cyber weapons. You see pictures. We give you some Equation Group files free, you see. This is good proof no? You enjoy!!! You break many things. You find many intrusions. You write many words. But not all, we are auction the best files." It is yet not confirmed whether the leaked documents are legitimate or not, but some security experts agree that it likely is. "I haven't tested the exploits, but they definitely look like legitimate exploits," Matt Suiche, founder of UAE-based cyber security firm Comae Technologies, told the Daily Dot. Also Read: NSA Planted Stuxnet-Type Malware Deep Within Hard Drive Firmware While some are saying that the leak could be a very well-researched hoax, and the Bitcoin auction could be nothing but a distraction in an attempt to gain media attention. "If this is a hoax, the perpetrators put a huge amount of effort in," security researcher The Grugq told Motherboard. "The proof files look pretty legit, and they are exactly the sorts of exploits you would expect a group that targets communications infrastructure to deploy and use." However, if NSA has successfully been hacked, the hack would be a highly critical cyber security incident. Update: The NSA Hack u2014 What, When, Where, How, Who & Why? Explained Here." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bf456cefc42b00293539" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Irongate u2014 New Stuxnet-like Malware Targets Industrial Control Systems", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2016/06/irongate-stuxnet-malware.html", "Date" : "2016-06-04T00:45:00-11:00", "Article" : "Security researchers have discovered a sophisticated piece of malware that uses tricks from the Stuxnet sabotage malware and is specifically designed to target industrial control systems (ICS) and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems. Researchers at the security firm FireEye Labs Advanced Reverse Engineering said on Thursday that the malware, dubbed "IRONGATE," affects Siemens industrial control systems. The malware only works in a simulated environment and is probably just a proof-of-concept that is likely not used in wild; therefore is not yet advanced enough to impact real-world systems. The Irongate malware "is not viable against operational Siemens control systems," the cybersecurity firm said in its blog post, and the malware "does not exploit any vulnerabilities in Siemens products." The researchers found this malware fascinating due to its mode of operation that included some Stuxnet-like behavior. The Stuxnet sabotage malware was allegedly developed by the United States and Israel to disrupt Iran's nuclear facility and destroyed a several country's uranium enrichment centrifuges. Just like Stuxnet, Irongate uses a Man-in-the-Middle (MitM) technique to inject itself between the PLC (Programmable Logic Controller) and the legitimate software monitoring process, checks for defenses before detonating, as well as mask its tracks. Moreover, to achieve this MitM, like Stuxnet, Irongate replaces a valid Dynamic Link Library (DLL) file with a malicious copy, potentially allowing the malware to target a particular control system configuration. DLL is a small piece of code that can be used by different programs at the same time. However, the researchers note that Irongate doesn't compare to Stuxnet in terms of complexity, ability to propagate, or geopolitical implications. Moreover, Irongate differs from Stuxnet in the way it avoids detection. While Stuxnet only looked for the presence of various antivirus software on the target systems, Irongate looks for sandbox environments such as VMWare and Cuckoo Sandbox. FireEye says the firm detected several versions of Irongate on malware database VirusTotal in the second half of 2015, but researchers managed to track down two malware samples to September 2014. The research team doesn't think that Irongate is written by the Stuxnetu2019s authors, as Irongate is not the type of sophistication one would expect from a nation state. FireEye says Irongate could be a proof-of-concept, a research project, or just a test, which is why the firm went public with the details in order to find out more about the malware sample. But the question still remains: Who did write Irongate?" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bfd46cefc42b00293562" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Hackers Cause World's First Power Outage with Malware", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2016/01/Ukraine-power-system-hacked.html", "Date" : "2016-01-05T00:39:00-11:00", "Article" : "SCADA system has always been an interesting target for cyber crooks, given the success of Stuxnet malware that was developed by the US and Israeli together to sabotage the Iranian nuclear facilities a few years ago, and "Havex" that previously targeted organizations in the energy sector. Now once again, hackers have used highly destructive malware and infected, at least, three regional power authorities in Ukraine, causing blackouts across the Ivano-Frankivsk region of Ukraine on 23rd December. The energy ministry confirmed it was investigating claims a cyber attack disrupted local energy provider Prykarpattyaoblenergo, causing the power outage that left half of the homes in Ivano-Frankivsk without electricity just before Christmas. According to a Ukrainian news service TSN, the outage was the result of nasty malware that disconnected electrical substations. Related Read: Dragonfly Russian Hackers Target 1000 Western Energy Firms. First Malware to Cause Power Outage On Monday, researchers from antivirus provider ESET confirmed that multiple power authorities in Ukraine were infected by "BlackEnergy" trojan. BlackEnergy Trojan was first discovered in 2007 as a relatively simple tool to conduct Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks but was updated two years ago to add a host of new features, including the ability to render infected computers unbootable. The malware was launched by "Russian security services" with it being used against industrial control systems and politically sensitive targets, the SBU state intelligence service said in a statement on Monday. According to ESET, the malware was recently updated again to add a new component called KillDisk and a backdoored secure shell (SSH) utility that gives hackers permanent access to infected computers. Also Read: This 'Killer USB' can make your Computer explode The KillDisk module enables the BlackEnergy malware to destroy critical parts of a computer hard drive and to sabotage industrial control systems, the same used in attacks against Ukrainian news media companies and the electrical power industry. "The first known case where the KillDisk component of BlackEnergy was used was documented by CERT-UA in November 2015," Anton Cherepanov of ESET wrote in a blog post. "In that instance, a number of news media companies were attacked at the time of the 2015 Ukrainian local elections. The report claims that a large number of video materials and various documents were destroyed as a result of the attack." How Did Hackers Cause Blackouts? Researchers said hackers had used backdoors to spread the KillDisk wiper module through booby-trapped macro functions embedded in Microsoft Office documents across the Ukrainian power authorities. Therefore, it is believed that the initial point of infection with BlackEnergy caused after employees opened Microsoft Office files containing malicious macros. Related Read: 'Regin' Spying Malware Targeted Govts, Infrastructures for Years. It is really disturbing that industrial control systems used to supply power to Millions of homes could be infected using such a simple social-engineering trick. Moreover, the most concerning part is that the BlackEnergy malware is now being used to create power failures that can even have life-and-death consequences for large numbers of people. Ukrainian authorities are investigating the hacking attack on its power grid. For more technical details about the latest BlackEnergy package, you can read on ESET blog." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35c00f6cefc42b00293572" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "NSA-linked Spying Malware Infected Top German Official's Computer", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2015/10/nsa-spying-malware-hack.html", "Date" : "2015-10-26T21:40:00-11:00", "Article" : "The German authorities have initiated a further investigation into espionage by the United States secret service NSA and British intelligence agency GCHQ after... ...the head of the German Federal Chancellery unit had his private laptop infected. According to a recent report published by Der Spiegel, the laptop of the Chancellery division leader was infected with Regin u2013 a highly advanced espionage malware program that has been linked to the National Security Agency (NSA) and its UK counterpart, the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ). As The Hacker News reported almost a year ago, Regin is one of the most highly advanced, sophisticated malware programs that was used to spy on a wide range of international targets including: Internet service providers (ISPs) Telecommunications backbone operators Energy firms Airlines Government entities Research institutes Other high-profile individuals u2026around the world since at least 2008. Regin has dozens of modules that enable a range of functionality, including: Capturing screenshots Seizing control of an infected computer's mouse Stealing passwords Monitoring network traffic Recovering deleted files Data exfiltration In-depth technical analysis showed that Regin bears some resemblance to the infamous espionage trojans Flame and Duqu, as well as Stuxnet worm that the US and Israel reportedly used to sabotage Iran's nuclear program. Files leaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden have further linked Regin to the NSA, specifically to a keylogging plugin dubbed QWERTY that was used in the NSA's WarriorPride framework. The bottom line: Regin and WARRIORPRIDE are one and the same thing. Recent Der Spiegel reports that Regin had been discovered infecting the laptop of a head of the Federal Chancellery Unit u2013 the federal agency that serves the office of the Chancellor (presently Mrs Angela Merkel) u2013 has once again strained relationships between Germany and the United States. Previously the relations between the two got deteriorated when Snowden documents revealed that the NSA agents tapped into Angela Merkel's mobile phone. The U.S. Prosecutors in Germany investigated that claim but dropped later in June due to insufficient evidence. The Officials have initiated an investigation into the latest discovery and aren't jumping to any conclusions yet, but it is easy to guess where their suspicions lie. If the evidence holds up, and if Regin is indeed WARRIORPRIDE, it could worsen the relationships that have already turned a bit sour. However, since the tool is used by the five-eyes of different countries, identifying the culprit might prove difficult." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d5316cefc42b002935db" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "'Regin' - 'State-Sponsored' Spying Tool Targeted Govts, Infrastructures for Years", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2014/11/regin-state-sponsored-spying-tool.html", "Date" : "2014-11-23T22:10:00-11:00", "Article" : "Researchers have uncovered a highly advanced, sophisticated piece of malware they believe was used to spy on a wide-range of international targets including governments, infrastructure operators and other high-profile individuals since at least 2008. The nasty malware, dubbed "Regin", is said to be more sophisticated than both Stuxnet and Duqu, according to the researchers at antivirus software maker Symantec Corp. DEVELOPED BY NATION STATE The research showed that the Regin malware is believe to be developed by a wealthy "nation state" and is a primary cyber espionage tool of a nation state because of the financial clout needed to produce code of this complexity with several stealth features to avoid detection. But, the antivirus software maker didn't identify which country was behind it. "It is likely that its development took months, if not years, to complete and its authors have gone to great lengths to cover its tracks. Its capabilities and the level of resources behind Regin indicate that it is one of the main cyber espionage tools used by a nation state," said Symantec Security Response team. "The security firm did not name a nation as the source of Regin, but is willing to say most of its victims were from Russia and Saudi Arabia and were targeted between 2008 and 2011 with a since decommissioned version of the malware that re-surfaced after 2013." Regin uses a modular approach allowing it to load features that exactly fit the target, enabling a customized spying. The malware's design makes it highly suited for persistent, long-term mass surveillance operations against targets, the company said. The nasty malware's main targets include Internet service providers and telecommunications companies, where it appears the complex software is used to monitor calls and communications routed through the companies' infrastructure. Other targets include organisations in hospitality, energy, airline, health sectors and research. HIGHLY CUSTOMIZABLE FIVE STAGE STRUCTURE Regin's highly customizable nature allows large-scale remote access Trojan capabilities, including password and data theft, hijacking the mouse's point-and-click functions, and capturing screenshots from infected computers. Other infections were identified monitoring network traffic and analyzing email from Exchange databases. "Customisable with an extensive range of capabilities depending on the target, it provides its controllers with a powerful framework for mass surveillance and has been used in spying operations against government organisations, infrastructure operators, businesses, researchers, and private individuals," Symantec said. In order to remain stealthy, Regin is organized into five layers, each "hidden and encrypted, with the exception of the first stage." It's a multi-stage attack and each stage reveals the overall attack. Executing the first stage starts a domino chain in which the second stage is decrypted and executed, and that in turn decrypts the third stage, and so on. NASTY MODULES The whole picture of the malware only emerges when you have acquire all five stages because each individual stage provides little information on the complete package. Regin contains dozens of payloads, including code for capturing screenshots, seizing control of an infected computer's mouse, stealing passwords, monitoring network traffic, and recovering deleted files. Other modules appear to be tailored to specific targets. Specialist modules were found monitoring the traffic of Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS) server, parsing mail from Exchange databases, and collecting administration traffic for mobile base station controllers." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d5826cefc42b00293604" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Variant of Havex Malware Scans for OPC Servers at SCADA Systems", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2014/07/new-variant-of-havex-malware-scans-for.html", "Date" : "2014-07-18T20:00:00-11:00", "Article" : "At the beginning of the month, we have reported about the new surge of a Stuxnet-like malware u201cHavexu201d, which was previously targeting organizations in the energy sector, had been used to carry out industrial espionage against a number of companies in Europe and compromised over 1,000 European and North American energy firms. Recently, researchers at security firm FireEye have discovered a new variant of Havex remote access Trojan that has capability to actively scan OPC (Object linking and embedding for Process Control) servers, used for controlling SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) systems in critical infrastructure, energy, and manufacturing sectors. OPC is a communications standard that allows interaction between Windows-based SCADA or other industrial control systems (ICS) applications and process control hardware. New Havex variant gathers system information and data stored on a compromised client or server using the OPC standard. OPC is pervasive and is one of the most common ICS protocols. u201cThreat actors have leveraged Havex in attacks across the energy sector for over a year, but the full extent of industries and ICS systems affected by Havex is unknown,u201d wrote the researchers from FireEye in a blog post. u201cWe decided to examine the OPC scanning component of Havex more closely, to better understand what happens when itu2019s executed and the possible implications.u201d Researchers set up a typical OPC server environment to conduct a real time test of the new variant's functionality. ICS or SCADA systems consist of OPC client software that interacts directly with an OPC server, which works in tandem with the PLC (Programmable Logic Controller) to control industrial hardware. Once after getting into network, the Havex downloader calls the runDll export function and then starts scanning of OPC servers in the SCADA network. To identify potential OPC server, the OPC Scanner module use the Windows networking (WNet) functions i.e. WNetOpenEnum and WNetEnumResources, that enumerates network resources or existing connections. u201cThe scanner builds a list of all servers that are globally accessible through Windows networking,u201d researchers wrote. u201cThe list of servers is then checked to determine if any of them host an interface to the Component Object Models (COM).u201d Using OPC scan, the new Havex variant could gather any details about connected devices and sends them back to the command-and-control server for the attackers to analyze. It appears that this new variant is used as a tool for future intelligence gathering. u201cThis is the first u201cin the wildu201d sample using OPC scanning. It is possible that these attackers could have used this malware as a testing ground for future utilization, however,u201d researchers wrote. So far, researchers have not seen any attempt to control the connected hardware. The attack path, the developer and the intention behind the development of the malware is still not known, but researchers are investigating and trying to gather all the information about the new variant." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d58f6cefc42b0029360b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Dragonfly Russian Hackers Target 1000 Western Energy Firms", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2014/07/dragonfly-russian-hackers-scada-havex.html", "Date" : "2014-07-01T22:56:00-11:00", "Article" : "Gone are the days when cyber criminals focuses only on PCs to spread malwares and target people, whether itu2019s ordinary or a high profile person. Nowadays, organizations in the energy sector have become an interesting target for cyber minds. Few days ago, security researchers uncovered a Stuxnet-like malware, u201cHavexu201d, which was also programmed to infect industrial control system software of SCADA systems, with the capability to possibly disable hydroelectric dams, overload nuclear power plants, and even shut down a countryu2019s power grid with a single keystroke. RUSSIAN HACKERS HIT 1000 ENERGY FIRMS Recently, a Russian group of hackers known as 'Energetic Bear' has compromised over 1,000 European and North American energy firms with a sophisticated cyber weapon, similar to Stuxnet, that gave hackers access to power plant control systems, said a security firm. The group of hackers also known as 'Dragonfly', an eastern European collective that has been active since at least 2011 and has been using phishing sites and Trojans to target energy supplier organizations in the US and several other countries, since 2013. "Its primary goal appears to be espionage," claimed Symantec. The group appears to have the resources, size and organization that no doubt suggest the involvement of government in the malware campaign, said the firm. According to the blog post published yesterday by security firm Symantec, Dragonfly group mainly targeted petroleum pipeline operators, electricity generation firms and other Industrial Control Systems (ICS) equipment providers for the energy sector in several companies. SABOTAGE OPERATIONSince 2013, Dragonfly has been targeting organizations that make use of Industrial Control Systems (ICS) to manage electrical, water, oil, gas and data systems, which affected almost 84 countries in a campaign spanning 18 months, although most of the victims were located in the United States, Spain, France, Italy, Germany, Turkey, and Poland.u201cDragonfly initially targeted defense and aviation companies in the US and Canada before shifting its focus mainly to US and European energy firms in early 2013,u201d reads the blog post. u201cDragonfly bears the hallmarks of a state-sponsored operation, displaying a high degree of technical capability.u201dATTACK VECTORSDragonfly used different techniques to infect industrial software with Remote Access Trojan (RAT) in order to access computer systems, including attaching malware to emails, websites and third-party programs, giving it "the capability to mount sabotage operations that could have disrupted energy supplies across a number of European countries".u201cThe attackers, known to Symantec as Dragonfly, managed to compromise a number of strategically important organizations for spying purposes,u201d Symantec said in a blog post. u201cIf they had used the sabotage capabilities open to them, (they) could have caused damage or disruption to energy supplies in affected countries.u201dDRAGONFLY LINKED TO HAVEX, A STUXNET-LIKE WORMDragonfly used two hacking outfit, the first one is Backdoor.Oldrea which is used to gather system information, including the computers' Outlook address book and a list of files and programs installed, and the second one is Trojan.Karagany which is used to upload stolen data, download new files and run them on infected computers, the firm said. The Oldrea backdoor is also known as Havex, about which we reported few days ago. In short, both Oldrea and Karagany malware families allow cyber criminals to gain backdoor access of the infected systems, as well as to exfiltrate confidential data and, download and install additional malware to the systems. The first powerful malware of this family is the famous Stuxnet Worm, which made international headlines in 2010 and was designed to sabotage the Iranian nuclear project. It specifically targeted a uranium enrichment facility to make the centrifuges spin out of control and cause physical damage to the plant in Natanz, Iran and successfully disabled 1,000 centrifuges that the Iranians were using to enrich uranium." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d5986cefc42b0029360f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet-like 'Havex' Malware Strikes European SCADA Systems", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2014/06/stuxnet-like-havex-malware-strikes.html", "Date" : "2014-06-26T05:16:00-11:00", "Article" : "Security researchers have uncovered a new Stuxnet like malware, named as u201cHavexu201d, which was used in a number of previous cyber attacks against organizations in the energy sector. Just like Famous Stuxnet Worm, which was specially designed to sabotage the Iranian nuclear project, the new trojan Havex is also programmed to infect industrial control system softwares of SCADA and ICS systems, with the capability to possibly disable hydroelectric dams, overload nuclear power plants, and even can shut down a countryu2019s power grid with a single keystroke. According to security firm F-Secure who first discovered it as Backdoor:W32/Havex.A., it is a generic remote access Trojan (RAT) and has recently been used to carry out industrial espionage against a number of companies in Europe that use or develop industrial applications and machines. SMARTY PANTS, TROJANIZED INSTALLERS To accomplish this, besides traditional infection methods such as exploit kits and spam emails, cybercriminals also used an another effective method to spread Havex RAT, i.e. hacking the websites of software companies and waiting for the targets to install trojanized versions of legitimate apps. During installation, the trojanized software setup drops a file called "mbcheck.dll", which is actually Havex malware, that attackers are using as a backdoor. u201cThe C&C server will [then] instruct infected computers to download and execute further components,u201d u201cWe gathered and analyzed 88 variants of the Havex RAT used to gain access to, and harvest data from, networks and machines of interest. This analysis included investigation of 146 command and control (C&C) servers contacted by the variants, which in turn involved tracing around 1500 IP addresses in an attempt to identify victims.u201d F-Secure said. F-secure didn't mention the names of the affected vendors, but an industrial machine producer and two educational organizations in France, with companies in Germany were targeted. INFORMATION GATHERING Havex RAT is equipped with a new component, whose purpose is to gather network and connected devices information by leveraging the OPC (Open Platform Communications) standard. OPC is a communications standard that allows interaction between Windows-based SCADA applications and process control hardware. The malware scans the local network for the devices that respond to OPC requests to gather information about industrial control devices and then sends that information back to its command-and-control (C&C) server. Other than this, it also include information-harvesting tools that gather data from the infected systems, such as: Operating system related information A Credential-harvesting tool that stole passwords stored on open web browsers A component that communicates to different Command-&-Control servers using custom protocols and execute tertiary payloads in memory. u201cSo far, we have not seen any payloads that attempt to control the connected hardware.u201d F-secure confirmed. MOTIVATION? While their motivation is unclear at this point, u201cWe also identified an additional component used by the attackers that includes code to harvest data from infected machines used in ICS/SCADA systems. This indicates that the attackers are not just interested in compromising the networks of companies they are interested in, but are also motivated in having control of the ICS/SCADA systems in those organizations.u201d F-Secure noticed. HAVEX TROJAN FROM RUSSIANS ? In January this year, Cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike revealed about a cyber espionage campaign, dubbed "Energetic Bear," where hackers possibly tied to Russian Federation penetrating the computer networks of energy companies in Europe, the United States and Asia. According to CrowdStrike, the Malwares used in those cyber attacks were HAVEX RAT and SYSMain RAT, and possibly HAVEX RAT is itself a newer version of the SYSMain RAT, and both tools have been operated by the attackers since at least 2011. That means, It is possible that Havex RAT could be somehow linked to Russian hackers or state-sponsored by Russian Government." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d66f6cefc42b0029367c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Rogue software update cause Malware attack on Japanese Nuclear Power Plant", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2014/01/rogue-software-update-cause-malware_9.html", "Date" : "2014-01-09T20:15:00-11:00", "Article" : "The most critical and worst target of a State-sponsored cyber-attacks could be Hospitals, Dams, Dykes and Nuclear power stations and this may cause military conflicts between countries. According to Japan Today, The Monju nuclear power plant in Tsuruga, Japan was accidentally targeted by a malware on 2nd January, when a worker updated the system to the latest version of the video playback program. Monju Nuclear Plant is a sodium-cooled fast reactor, was launched in April 1994. It has not been operational for most of the past 20 years, after an accident in which a sodium leak caused a major fire. Employees over there are only left with a regular job of company's paperwork and maintenance. So the malware could have stolen only some sensitive documents, emails, training records and employees' data sheets. The Malware command-and-control server suspected to be from South Korea. The malware itself is not much sophisticated like Stuxnet or Duqu, but the unmanaged software update and patch management system can seriously lead to a critical cyber attack. Even being isolated from the Internet does not prevent you from being infected. One of the best examples of flawed Internal policies is Stuxnet, one of the most infamous pieces of malware ever created to destroy Iranian Nuclear plants and infected the systems through a USB stick only. Also in November, The Kaspersky revealed that Russian astronauts carried a removable device into space which infected systems on the space station." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d68a6cefc42b0029368b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "The Evolution of Cyber Threat; Interview with IntelCrawler's Researchers", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2013/12/the-evolution-of-cyber-threat-interview.html", "Date" : "2013-12-16T06:00:00-11:00", "Article" : "Today I desire to propose an interview with Andrey Komarov, CEO of IntelCrawler and Dan Clements, President of IntelCrawler. IntelCrawler is a multi-tier intelligence aggregator, which gathers information and cyber prints from a starting big data pool of over 3, 000, 000, 000 IPv4 and over 200, 000, 000 domain names, which are scanned for analytics and dissemination to drill down to a desired result. I have prepared for them a series of answers and questions to analyze significant evolutions in the cyber-threat landscape: Q. Which are the most concerning cyber threats for private businesses and government organizations?A. Avoiding talking about usual and standard things, of course, the most dangerous and annoying is the emergence of fundamentally new vulnerabilities in critical applications and systems. "Zero day" vulnerabilities market is developing every day and taking the shape of a part of the future cyber warfare market, as it is still in the process of formation. Neither consumers in the face of government or companies, nor vendors are not ready for such kind of threat, which makes mitigation actions very complicated. Q. Which are the industries most exposed to cyber attacks and why?A. Just imagine, what would be interesting for you, if your main interests were money and information? It is two main reasons of all past and today's cyber attacks in the world. First of all, it is all related to profitable commercial business, such as private banking and industrial sector, ending with government infrastructures, which relates to state sponsored attacks. It is true, as cyber offensive approaches displace "old school", such as signal intelligence, as it is much cheaper and easier in the 21st century. The role of information takes new forms, making the computer communications as a battlefield of modern cyber warfare. Which are the factors that most of all have influenced the design of malicious code in the last year (e.g. P2P communication protocols, advanced evasion techniques, hiding C&C in Tor networks) Malware coders are interested in hiding of the communications between the infected host and C&C, that's why the stable trend is to create or to use alternative means of communications. That's why, there were lots of new kinds of samples, which used C&C in TOR or I2P, which was really exotic for the first time, but then became one of the standards for the cybercriminals. Q. Which is the role of the intelligence in the fight to the cybercrime?A. The role of e-crime intelligence is huge, as sometimes only timely notification about planned threat can help to prevent cyber attack or fraud. There are some difficulties in this niche as well, such as the heterogeneity of geographies cyber criminals live, the languages they speak, opportunity of deep infiltration in Underground communities, gathering information on the real identity of the criminals in the age of anonymity and impersonality and etc., all these aspects forcing us to organize systematical monitoring of several the most important regions, such as Asian segment, former USSR, risky EU-based countries, such as Romania, and use a large network of trusted sources. Software protection ways can't help on 100%, that's why human resources and intelligence are one of the most important additional elements. Q. Malware and Internet of things, what to expect in the next months?A. First of all, new variants of mobile malware, as it will be one of the most actual for the nearest future, because of global "mobilization". Secondly, new kinds of online-banking trojans and the appearance of medication of POS/ATM malicious code, as "skimming" becomes too expensive and risky. Thirdly, hacking and surveillance will damage your privacy more and more, as it is inseparable. Q. Does it exist a marked distinction between cybercrime and state-sponsored hacking?A. Yes, as state-sponsored hacking has more specifics. Interesting fact, that firstly cybercriminality creates the trend for further state-sponsored hacking, governments copy its actions and explore the methods and means they use in that or this country, as it is really different. Just compare, Chinese hackers and Latin American hackers, absolutely different style of intrusions, fundamentally different approaches on malicious code, as Chinese stuff is more sophisticated, because of great experience and scientific potential across the whole country. Q. Which are the governments most active in cyberspace?A. You should be very cautions talking about exact governments in cyber world, because it is still not very transparent. Good example, we have detected the C&C placed in Morocco, but the owners of the botnets who were behind using email accounts registered on GMX.DE. Another is when the malware after reverse engineering and unpacking had strings written in Hebrew, but hosted in Latvia. Despite these facts, the leaders of this industry certainly are: China, USA, Russia, Germany, France, UK, UAE and Saudi Arabia and Israel. Q. Do you think it is possible a major cyber attack against a government network or a critical infrastructure in the next year?A. Yes, as it is one of the today's main interests of bad actors, doesn't matter state sponsored or general criminals. Q. Do you think it is possible that a Stuxnet like malware is already operating on the Internet? A. You never know, but I think that the topic of embedded systems backdooring or malware distribution under PLC/RTU/SCADA is still very actual. And was not deleted from the plans of the intelligence community. Dan Clements: IntelCrawler President, former Cardcops president, one of the first cybercrime intelligence company, which worked with major banks in the US on compromised data recovery. Andrey Komarov: IntelCrawler CEO, author of OWASP SCADA Security Project. Expert in critical infrastructure protection (CIP) and SCADA security assessment. Responsible for cyber intelligence and e-crime intelligence topics in the company, as well as for R&D on Big Data and IPv4/IPv6 address space research." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d69d6cefc42b00293695" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Super 'Stuxnet' Malware development in progress to destroy Iranu2019s nuclear program", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2013/12/Stuxnet-2-Saudi-Arabia-Israel-Iran-nuclear-plant-virus.html", "Date" : "2013-12-03T05:56:00-11:00", "Article" : "Saudi Arabia and Israelu2019s Mossad intelligence division are reportedly collaborating to develop a computer worm more destructive than the Stuxnet malware to spy on and destroy the software structure of Iranu2019s nuclear program. The Iranian Fars news agency has reported: u201cSaudi spy chief Prince Bandar bin Sultan bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and director of Israelu2019s Mossad intelligence agency Tamir Bardo sent their representatives to a meeting in Vienna on November 24 to increase the two sidesu2019 cooperation in intelligence and sabotage operations against Iranu2019s nuclear program.u201d u201cOne of the proposals raised in the meeting was the production of a malware worse than the Stuxnet to spy on and destroy the software structure of Iranu2019s nuclear program,u201dBut Why ? The report claims that Saudi Arabia and Israel were not particularly happy with the deal between between Iran and the Group 5+1 (the US, Russia, China, France and Britain plus Germany) and Israel has dubbed the deal as u201chistoric mistakeu201d while Saudi Arabia has called it u201cWestu2019s treacheryu201d. The report also adds that the two counties have agreed to a cost of around $1 million to develop this malware. The Real Stuxnet - The original Stuxnet malware was uncovered targeting Iranian nuclear systems in 2010, most likely infected isolated systems by way of removable storage devices like USB flash drives and by exploiting vulnerabilities in Windows systems. The malware has since managed to spread outside of Iran and has affected several other power plants, some close to Europe. NSA leaker Edward Snowden even confirmed that Stuxnet Malware was developed by the US and Israel Together. What Next ? Tehran is getting seriously worried about the Saudi-Israeli intelligence partnership and the prospect of them acting together for covert operations, including cyber warfare, against their nuclear projects. Recently Stuxnet also infected the internal network of a Russian nuclear plant. But what if this new destructive malware did get into other computers what the effect would be?" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d7176cefc42b002936d2" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Snowden Confirms Stuxnet Malware developed by NSA and Israel Together", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2013/07/Edward-Snowden-Stuxnet-NSA-Israel.html", "Date" : "2013-07-08T05:14:00-11:00", "Article" : "In an interview with Germanyu2019s Der Spiegel Magazine, American whistleblower Edward Snowden has Confirmed that Stuxnet Malware was developed by NSA and Israel Together. Stuxnet made international headlines in 2010 for specifically target a uranium enrichment facility in Natanz, Iran. Stuxnet was designed to make the centrifuges spin out of control and cause physical damage to the plant in Natanz. Stuxnet temporarily disabled 1,000 centrifuges that the Iranians were using to enrich uranium. Asked whether the NSA collaborates with Israel, Snowden said: "Yes, all the time. The NSA has a large section for that, called the FAD - Foreign Affairs Directorate." u201cThe NSA and Israel wrote Stuxnet together,u201d Snowden said when asked if the NSA had any involvement in the Stuxnet program. Last year an even more complex computer virus called Flame was discovered and while initially it was not linked to Stuxnet, further investigation by Kaspersky Labs identified a module within both which indicated that the writers of Flame were the same as those behind Stuxnet. Snowden also confirmed in the interview in Der Spiegel that the NSA was "in bed with the Germans, just like with most other Western states."" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d7666cefc42b002936fa" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Microsoft flaw allows USB loaded with payload to bypass security controls", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2013/03/microsoft-flaw-allows-usb-loaded-with.html", "Date" : "2013-03-15T05:47:00-11:00", "Article" : "During March Patch Tuesday of 2013, Microsoft released seven new security bulletins, with four rated as critical, and others as Important. Most interesting one was MS13-027, which is rated as "important" because the attack requires physical access to the vulnerable machine. This flaw allows anyone with a USB thumb drive loaded with the payload to bypass security controls and access a vulnerable system even if AutoRun is disabled, and the screen is locked. Flaw exposes your Windows PCs to major risk. If you remember Stuxnet, worm was injected to Iran's nuclear program system using USB thumb drive. Windows typically discovers USB devices when they are inserted or when they change power sources (if they switch from plugged-in power to being powered off of the USB connection itself). To exploit the vulnerability an attacker could add a maliciously formatted USB device to the system. When the Windows USB device drivers enumerate the device, parsing a specially crafted descriptor, the attacker could cause the system to execute malicious code in the context of the Windows kernel. Because the vulnerability is triggered during device enumeration, no user intervention is required. In fact, the vulnerability can be triggered when the workstation is locked or when no user is logged in, making this an un-authenticated elevation of privilege for an attacker with casual physical access to the machine. Microsoft admits the flaw could "open additional avenues of exploitation that do not require direct physical access to the system," once the USB-based exploit is successful. The vulnerabilities addressed by Microsoft do not include those exploited by security researchers at the recent Pwn2Own hacking competition at the CanSecWest Conference in Vancouver." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d7a26cefc42b00293718" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Fake Turkish digital Certificates blocked by Browser vendors", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2013/01/fake-turkish-digital-certificates.html", "Date" : "2013-01-04T02:47:00-11:00", "Article" : "Itu2019s the news of the day, a fraudulent digital certificate that could be used for active phishing attacks against Googleu2019s web properties. Using the certificate it is possible to spoof content in a classic phishing schema or perform a man-in-the-middle attack according Google Chrome Security Team and Microsoft experts. Microsoft has been immediately started the procedure to update its Certificate Trust list (CTL) and all versions of its OSs to revoke the certificate. Microsoft has also decided to revoke other two certificates for the same reason, it seems that some attacks using the first certificate have been already detected, fraudulent digital certificate that was mistakenly issued by a domain registrar run by a Turkish domain registrar. Microsoft has issued a security advisory u201cMicrosoft Security Advisory (2798897) -Fraudulent Digital Certificates Could Allow Spoofingu201d that states: u201cMicrosoft is aware of active attacks using one fraudulent digital certificate issued by TURKTRUST Inc., which is a CA present in the Trusted Root Certification Authorities Store. This fraudulent certificate could be used to spoof content, perform phishing attacks, or perform man-in-the-middle attacks. This issue affects all supported releases of Microsoft Windows. TURKTRUST Inc. incorrectly created two subsidiary CAs (*.EGO.GOV.TR and e-islem.kktcmerkezbankasi.org). The *.EGO.GOV.TR subsidiary CA was then used to issue a fraudulent digital certificate to *.google.com. This fraudulent certificate could be used to spoof content, perform phishing attacks, or perform man-in-the-middle attacks against several Google web properties. To help protect customers from the fraudulent use of this digital certificate, Microsoft is updating the Certificate Trust list (CTL) and is providing an update for all supported releases of Microsoft Windows that removes the trust of certificates that are causing this issue.u201d Itu2019s still unknown which is the real target of attack neither their geographic distribution, Microsoft advisory refers the domain kktcmerkezbankasi.org a web site that present itself as the Central Bank of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC). Google On-Line Security Blog published a blog post that reported that on Dec. 24, 2012, its Chrome Web browser detected and blocked an unauthorized digital certificate for the u201c*.google.comu201d domain. The post states: u201cWe investigated immediately and found the certificate was issued by an intermediate certificate authority (CA) linking back to TURKTRUST, a Turkish certificate authority. Intermediate CA certificates carry the full authority of the CA, so anyone who has one can use it to create a certificate for any website they wish to impersonate. In response, we updated Chromeu2019s certificate revocation metadata on December 25 to block that intermediate CA, and then alerted TURKTRUST and other browser vendors. TURKTRUST told us that based on our information, they discovered that in August 2011 they had mistakenly issued two intermediate CA certificates to organizations that should have instead received regular SSL certificates.u201d In a blog post published a In 2011 I explained which is the usefulness to steal a CA certificate: Malware production - Installation for certain types of software could needs that its code is digitally signed with a trusted certificate. By stealing the certificate of a trusted vendor reduces the possibility that the malicious software being detected as quickly. That is exactly what happend for Stuxnet virus. Economic Frauds - digital signature give a warranty on who signed a document and you can decide if you trust the person or company who signed the file and if you trust the organization who issued the certificate. If a digital certificate is stolen we will suffer of an identity theft, letu2019s imagine which could be the implication. Some bot, like happened for the banking with Zeus malware, could be deployed to steal steal site certificates so that they can fool web browsers into thinking that a phishing site is a legitimate bank web site. Cyber warfare - Criminals or governments could use the stolen certificates to conduct u201cman-in-the-middleu201d attacks, tricking users into thinking they were at a legitimate site when in fact their communications were being secretly tampered and intercepted. That is for example what occurred in the DigiNota case u2026 companies like Facebook, Google and also agencies like CIA, MI6 were targeted in Dutch government certificate hack. The security repercussions are very critical, any attacker with the possibility to sign using a certificate of a CA can sign certificates for any domain. In the past we have already observed similar incidents, such as the case of Diginotar CA, learning how much dangerous is the impairment of a CA. Who will be next?" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d7b36cefc42b00293720" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Batchwiper malware, new virus targets Iranian computers", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/12/batchwiper-malware-new-virus-targets.html", "Date" : "2012-12-18T03:17:00-11:00", "Article" : "Iranian CERT is sounding the alarm over another bit of data-deleting malware it's discovered on PCs in the country. Dubbed Batchwiper, the malware systematically wipes any drive partitions starting with the letters D through I Drive, along with any files stored on the Windows desktop of the user who is logged in when it's executed Why naming Batchwiper ? The name was chosen because the malware is packed in a batch file. The malware initiates its data wiping routine on certain dates, the next one being Jan. 21 2013. However, the dates of Oct. 12, Nov. 12 and Dec. 12, 2012, were also found in the malware's configuration, suggesting that it may have been in distribution for at least two months. GrooveMonitor.exe is the original dropper, which is a self-extracting RAR file, once executed it extracts the following files: -- WINDOWSsystem32SLEEP.EXE, md5: ea7ed6b50a9f7b31caeea372a327bd37 -- WINDOWSsystem32jucheck.exe, md5: c4cd216112cbc5b8c046934843c579f6 -- WINDOWSsystem32juboot.exe, md5: fa0b300e671f73b3b0f7f415ccbe9d41 Then juboot.exe is executed, which create and execute following batch file : Documents and Settings%User%Local SettingsTemp1.tmpjuboot.bat According to the Iranian CERT advisory, "However, it is not considered to be widely distributed. This targeted attack is simple in design and it is not any similarity to the other sophisticated targeted attacks." In past, Iran has accused the US and Israel of being behind the Flame attack as well as the Stuxnet virus. Such attacks are seen as en effort to cripple the Islamic Republic's nuclear program, which Western countries fear is being used to make a bomb." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d7d16cefc42b00293730" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Narilam malware target Iran Financial SQL Databases", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/11/narilam-malware-target-iran-financial.html", "Date" : "2012-11-26T23:36:00-11:00", "Article" : "Symantec recently identified a database-corrupting piece of malware targeting systems mostly in Iran, but despite early speculation that it could be related to the likes of Stuxnet and Flame, it appears to be targeting small businesses rather than the countryu2019s infrastructure. Malware Dubbed W32.Narilam, is predominantly active in the Middle East, and it has also been detected in the USA and UK. The worm looks for particular words in Microsoft SQL databases and overwrites them. The worm specifically targets SQL databases with three distinct names, alim, maliran, and shahd. Once the targeted databases are found, Narilam looks for specific objects and tables and either deletes the tables or replaces items with random values. On Monday an alert was published on tarrahsystem.com warning of the W32.Narilam threat to its customers. The bulk of the infections thus far have been found in the Middle East, particularly Iran and Afghanistan. Kaspersky Lab took issue with reports based on Symantecu2019s claim that Narilam was built using Delphi. u201cWeu2019ve analysed the sample and found no obvious connection with these. Duqu, Stuxnet, Flame and Gauss have all been compiled with versions of Microsoft Visual C, while Narilam was built with Borland C++ Builder 6 (and not Delphi, as other articles seem to suggest), a completely different programming tool.u201d Iranu2019s Computer Emergency Response Team issued a statement calling Narilam unsophisticated and u201chas no sign of a major threat.u201d In fact, Iranu2019s CERT said it had been previously detected in 2010 and targets accounting software developed by an Iranian company used by small businesses." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d7d36cefc42b00293731" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Flame Malware against French Government", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/11/flame-malware-against-french-government_22.html", "Date" : "2012-11-22T04:59:00-11:00", "Article" : "The news is sensational, according the French magazine L'Express the offices of France's former president Sarkozy were victim of a cyber attack, but what is even more remarkable is that for the offensive was used the famous malware Flame. On the origin of the malware still persist a mystery, many security experts attribute it to joint work of Israel and US development team. Let's remind that according the analysis on Flame source code conducted by Kaspersky the malware is linked to Stuxnet, a version of the famous virus shared a module with the spy toolkit. Frame is considered one of the most complex spy tool produced by a state sponsored project and its use in the attacks against French government suggests the existence of a cyber espionage campaign to collect sensible information. An official declaration coming from spokesmen of the Elysee Palace and reported by the magazine states:"Hackers have not only managed to get to the heart of French political power," "but they were able to search the computers of close advisers of Nicolas Sarkozy." Surely the operation has led to the theft of confidential information regarding the policy of the French government even if it seems not to have directly involved the President who does not have a personal computer."secret notes were recovered from hard drives, and also strategic plans." reports the article. The vector used to spread the malware is the popular social network Facebook , the hackers shared a link to compromised website that replicated the Elysee's intranet site gathering also user's credentials. Flame has infected the pc belonging presidential network which include of a number of Sarkozy's closest collaborators. The malicious code has been detected by the Agency nationale de la su00e9curitu00e9 des systu00e8mes d'information (Anssi) that immediately has knocked out the network to conduct the proper analysis and of course the sanitation of the IT infrastructure. The French government avoided to comment the incident, but in internet is circulating the news on a possible involvement in the operation of the United States. Fonts of the government revealed that the national infrastructures are steadily under attack, they declared that other two large scale cyber attacks were discovered in May without providing further info." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d7da6cefc42b00293734" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Cyber Espionage Campaign Targets Israel and Palestine", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/11/cyber-espionage-campaign-targets-israel.html", "Date" : "2012-11-12T08:53:00-11:00", "Article" : "Multiple malware attacks against both Israeli and Palestinian systems, likely to be coming from the same source, have been seen over the last year. Researchers in Norway have uncovered evidence of a vast Middle Eastern espionage network that for the past year has deployed malicious software to spy on Israeli and Palestinian targets. Israel has banned its police force from connecting to the Internet and from using memory sticks or disks in an effort to curb a cyberattack. The ban, enacted last week, is meant to prevent a malware program called Benny Gantz-55 named after Benny Gantz, Israel's Chief of General Staff from infecting the police's computer network Trend Micro has obtained samples of malware implicated in a recent incident, The attack began with a spammed message purporting to come from the head of the Israel Defense Forces, Benny Gatz. The From field has the email address, bennygantz59(at)gmail.com and bore the subject IDF strikes militants in Gaza Strip following rocket barrage to make it more legitimate.' The attackers were serving up the XtremeRat trojan, which was infamously used in surveillance campaigns against Syrian activists. XtremeRat trojan a Remote Access Trojan that can be used to steal information and receive commands from a remote attacker. According to Trend, the latest iterations of Xtreme Rat have Windows 8 compatibility, improved Chrome and Firefox password grabbing, and improved audio and desktop capture capabilities features. Looking into the source of the attacks, Norman said u201cWhat is behind these IP addresses is hard to establish. It is possible they are hacked boxes and as such do not give much valid information. If that were the case, one might have expected a greater IP range and geographical distribution, but nothing is certain,u201d. "In the following investigation we first found several other trojans similarly signed, then many more trojans connecting to the same command & control structure as the first batch.". "The Command & Control structure is centered around a few dynamic DNS (DynDNS) domains that at the time of writing point to hosting services in the US." Officials have yet to determine whether the virus is a prank or was generated by Iran's cyberwarfare program, which had been rapidly expanded since Tehran's nuclear program was hit by the Stuxnet virus in 2010." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d8486cefc42b0029376d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Wiper, the Destructive Malware possibly connected to Stuxnet and Duqu", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/09/wiper-destructive-malware-possibly.html", "Date" : "2012-08-31T13:16:00-11:00", "Article" : "Kaspersky Lab publishes research resulting from the digital forensic analysis of the hard disk images obtained from the machines attacked by the Wiper - a destructive malware program attacking computer systems related to oil facilities in Western Asia. Security researchers from Kaspersky Lab have uncovered information suggesting a possible link between the mysterious malware that attacked Iranian oil ministry computers in April and the Stuxnet and Duqu cyber espionage threats. The malware wipes data from hard drives, placing high priority on those with a .pnf extension, which are the type of files Stuxnet and Duqu used, and has other behavioral similarities, according to Schouwenberg. It also deletes all traces of itself. As a result, researchers have not been able to get a sample, but they've reviewed mirror images left on hard drives. Kaspersky's researchers were not able to find the mysterious malware, which was given the name Wiper, because very little data from the affected hard disk drives was recoverable. Even though a connection to Flame is unlikely, there is some evidence suggesting that Wiper might be related to Stuxnet or Duqu.For example, on a few of the hard drives analyzed, the researchers found traces of a service called RAHDAUD64 that loaded files named ~DFXX.tmp where XX are two random digits from the C:WINDOWSTEMP folder. No one has ever found a sample of Wiper in order to study its code and determine exactly what it did to machines in Iran. According to Kaspersky, the malwareu2019s algorithm is u201cdesigned to quickly destroy as many files as effectively as possible, which can include multiple gigabytes at a time.u201d Although Flame can be updated by its creators with various modules, including conceivably a module that would destroy data, there has never been any evidence found that Flame had a module that was used to destroy data on machines or wipe out hard drives." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d86c6cefc42b0029377f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Kaspersky Labs uncover 'Gauss' Espionage Malware hits Middle East banks", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/08/kaspersky-labs-uncover-gauss-espionage.html", "Date" : "2012-08-10T07:54:00-11:00", "Article" : "A new cyber surveillance virus has been found in the Middle East that can spy on banking transactions and steal login and passwords, according Kaspersky Lab, a leading computer security firm. After Stuxnet, Duqu, and Flame, this one seems to mainly spy on computer users in Lebanon. Itu2019s been dubbed Gauss (although Germanic-linguistic purists will no doubt be complaining that it should be written Gauu00df). Gauss is a complex cyber-espionage toolkit, highly modular and supports new functions which can be deployed remotely by the operators in the form of plugins. The currently known plugins perform the following functions: Intercept browser cookies and passwords. Harvest and send system configuration data to attackers. Infect USB sticks with a data stealing module. List the content of the system drives and folders Steal credentials for various banking systems in the Middle East. Hijack account information for social network, email and IM accounts. The researchers at Russia-based Kasperky Labs who discovered it have christened it Gauss, and say it is aimed at pinching the pocketbooks of its intended targets, whoever they may be, by stealing account information of customers of certain banks in Lebanon, but also customers of Citibank and of PayPal. An analysis of the new malicious software shows it was designed to steal data from Lebanese lenders including the Bank of Beirut (BOB), BomBank and Byblos Bank, Kaspersky said. Gauss has infected 2,500 machines, while Flame hit about 700. Two groups Russian-based Kaspersky Labs, which first published information on Gauss and Flame, and the Hungarian research lab Crysys are detecting the malware by looking for a font that shows up on infected machines called Palida Narrow.Roel Schouwenberg, senior researcher at Kaspersky Labs, said that researchers still donu2019t know why Gaussu2019s creators included the font file. Have a look on relationship between Flame, Gauss, Stuxnet and Duqu: One of the firm's top researchers said Gauss also contains a module known as "Godel" that may include a Stuxnet-like weapon for attacking industrial control systems. Kaspersky researchers said Gauss contained a u201cwarheadu201d that seeks a very specific computer system with no Internet connection and installs itself only if it finds one. *Image credit Kaspersky Lab" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d8936cefc42b00293793" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "US and Israel developed Flame Malware against Iran", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/06/us-and-israel-developed-flame-malware.html", "Date" : "2012-06-20T06:28:00-11:00", "Article" : "US and Israel developed Flame Malware against Iran Unnamed Western officials confirmed that Flame was developed by US and Israeli governments. The United States and Israel jointly developed the Flame computer virus that collected intelligence to help slow Iran's nuclear program. The massive piece of malware secretly mapped and monitored Iranu2019s computer networks, sending back a steady stream of intelligence to prepare for a cyberu00adwarfare campaign, according to the officials. The effort, involving the National Security Agency, the CIA and Israelu2019s military, has included the use of destructive software such as the Stuxnet virus to cause malfunctions in Iranu2019s nuclear-enrichment equipment. The cyber campaign against Iran's nuclear program has included the use of another computer virus called Stuxnet that caused malfunctions in Iran's nuclear enrichment equipment. u201cThis is about preparing the battlefield for another type of covert action,u201d said one former high-ranking U.S. intelligence official, who added that Flame and Stuxnet were elements of a broader assault that continues today. u201cCyber-collection against the Iranian program is way further down the road than this.u201d Flame was discovered back in May, following an investigation into a series of mysterious data loss incidents at Iran's Oil Ministry. Those attacks were carried out in April by the Israeli part of the operation without knowledge from the U.S. side. Security researchers from Kaspersky Lab believe that Flame was created in the first half of 2008. Stuxnet was discovered in June 2010, but the first variant of the malware is believed to date from June 2009. Spokesmen for the CIA, the NSA and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, as well as the Israeli Embassy in Washington, declined to comment." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d8b96cefc42b002937a6" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Cyber Attack on The Iranian Oil Ministry's Computer Network", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/04/cyber-attack-on-iranian-oil-ministrys.html", "Date" : "2012-04-23T11:57:00-11:00", "Article" : "Cyber Attack on The Iranian Oil Ministry's Computer Network The Iranian oil ministry's computer network came under attack from hackers and a computer virus, prompting the Islamic Republic to disconnect the country's main oil export terminal from the internet as a preventative measure, a semiofficial news agency reported on Monday. The Mehr News Agency, which is a semi-official arm of the Iranian government, reported Monday that the country's principal oil terminal on Kharg Island was disconnected from the Internet as part of the response to the attacks. Email systems associated with the targets were also pulled offline. Iranian officials said the virus attack, which began in earnest Sunday afternoon, had not affected oil production or exports, since the industry was still primarily mechanical and does not rely on the Internet. Officials said they were disconnecting the oil terminals and possibly some other installations in an effort to combat the virus. Cyberattacks by well-resourced, highly capable and relentless, usually state-sponsored attackers so called advanced persistent threats are growing. The best known example is Stuxnet, which was aimed at Iranu2019s nuclear centrifuges and is widely believed to have been developed by the US or Israel, neither of which have confirmed their involvement. The Iranian Students News Agency said that the virus, called u201cwiperu201d by its creator, had successfully erased information on hard disks at the Oil Ministryu2019s headquarters, a hulking black glass skyscraper on Taleghani Street in central Tehran. Hamdullah Mohammadnejad, the head of civil defence at the oil ministry, was reported as saying Iranian authorities had set up a crisis unit and were working out how to neutralise the attacks." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d8ca6cefc42b002937ae" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet was planted by Iranian double agent using memory stick", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/04/stuxnet-was-planted-by-iranian-double.html", "Date" : "2012-04-14T07:10:00-11:00", "Article" : "Stuxnet was planted by Iranian double agent using memory stick The Stuxnet computer worm used to sabotage Iran's nuclear program was planted by a double agent working for Israel. The agent used a booby-trapped memory stick to infect machines deep inside the Natanz nuclear facility, according to a report published on Wednesday. The worm is believed to have been placed on a specially crafted USB memory stick and handed over to a Natanz worker who, by all accounts, was an Iranian national belonging to a dissident group named Mujahideen-e Khalq (MEK). "The MEK has been listed as a 'foreign terrorist organization' since 1997 because of deadly attacks on Americans abroad, but members of the group have been trained at a secret site in Nevada. U.S. officials consider them 'the assassination arm of Israelu2019s Mossad intelligence service' as they have been connected to the killing of five Iranian nuclear scientists since 2007. The incident with Stuxnet is not the first time that the US intelligence community used a virus to spy on and disable the systems of opponents.In the 1980s they targeted Soviet military and industrial structures, and in 1991, just before Desert Storm, the CIA and the British GCHQ injected malware into Iraqi computers. [Read More]" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d8e66cefc42b002937bd" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Face to Face with Duqu malware", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/03/face-to-face-with-duqu-malware.html", "Date" : "2012-03-21T10:55:00-11:00", "Article" : "Face to Face with Duqu malware Once again we discuss about Stuxnet, cyber weapons and of the malware that appears derivate from the dangerous virus. The international scientific community has defined a Stuxnet deadly weapon because been designed with a detailed analysis of final target environment supported by a meticulous intelligence work that for the first time in history has embraced the world of information technology. The agent was designed with the intent to strike the Iranian nuclear program and even more clear is who has always opposed such a program, U.S. and Israel first, and consider also the technology skill necessary to develope a weapon with the observed architecture is really high. Extremely important two factors af the event:1. the choose of control systems as target of the malware.2. the conception of the virus as an open project, a modular system for which it was designed a development platform used to assemble the deadly cyber weapons in relation to the final targets. Regarding the second point, it has been discovered a platform behind Stuxnet called u201cTilded Platformu201c, used also for the development of Duqu malware, and that make possible the development of a set of reusable tools, a true innovation that make possible the composition of ever new and enhanced agents with modules developed to fulfill specific functions against clearly defined targets. As previously stated Duqu has some interesting features such as:Modularity of its structure. In isolated instances of the malware, unlike Stuxnet, it would not seem to be equipped with modules for SCADA systems attack. It is only able to steal information from the host system. The malware, such as Stuxnet has characteristics that demonstrate innovative techniques behind its development. We suppose that a team of specialists with high technical skills has been engaged to project the most innovative cyber weapon. According the ENISA Duqu Analysis there are important differences between Duqu and Stuxnet. The 2010 Kaspersky analysis [Gostev 2011] concluded that Stuxnet consists of the two parts: 1. A component responsible for the propagation of the malware (a carrier platform).2. A separate module targeting Programmable Logic Controllers (an attack module). According to Kaspersky, the carrier platform of Stuxnet could be reused, for example with a different attack module. But, unlike Stuxnet, DuQu can also be reconfigured remotely to install new malware payloads and to direct attacks at new targets. The attack module of DuQu, found together with the detected samples was a general purpose keylogger (enriched with some additional spying capabilities) able to perform a reconnaissance in any organization. However, according to Symantec, the aim of DuQu is to infiltrate organizations operating in industrial environments. This conclusion is based on the fact that the majority of the detected threats were found in industrial infrastructures, and because of the connection to Stuxnet code. Unlike Stuxnet, DuQu is an intelligence gathering tool, apparently aiming to prepare the ground for attacks such as Stuxnet. It should be emphasised, however that there is no direct evidence for the intentions behind DuQu But if Duqu has no components to attack SCADA systems or similar, why create in us so much worry? Remember that we defined modular Duqu? Well this is the feature I think that should cause us to jump from the chair. To date we have isolated versions of malware orphan of those components to attack specific critical systems, but it is reasonable to assume that the same Duqu is a work in progress project. The ability to compose its structure at different times using modules designed specifically for precise goals, makes this unique and formidable. What occurred in the Stuxnet case has raised media attention demonstrating the total inadequacy of the defense systems of critical infrastructures across the world. Many, too many, the SCADA systems around the world, achievable in an easy manner and easily attacked by evil-minded because they are un protected, exposed on the web for maintenance purpose, and configured with the factory settings easily available even with simple searches on the web. Also for that SCADA systems deployed without security and isolated from the Internet there is a concrete risk to be infected using USB memory sticks. While in recent weeks, the Iranian government declared definitively defeat the threat Stuxnet in the last month there are many news published on the web related to malware Duqu. The mistery of Duqu sorce codeThe first one was related the identification of the mysterious language used in the DuQu virus. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab requested the help of international experts after failing to figure out the language on their own.Thanks to help from programmers has been discovered that the language, which DuQu used to communicate with C&C (command & control) servers, is a special type of C code compiled with the Microsoft Visual Studio Compiler 2008. Despite the long period of study conducted on the agent the component of the source written in C remained a mystery. It's a vital part for Duqu used to communicate with C&C servers, download additional payload modules and execute them on infected machines. The code was C code compiled with Microsoft Visual Studio Compiler 2008 using options 01 and Ob1 in the compiler to keep the code small optimizing execution time and size of the source code. The use of object-oriented C dialect, generally called u201cOO C, to write the event-driven code in the malware reveals that authors who coded this part of DuQu were probably old-school programmers, their style is uncommon for malware and is more commonly found in professionally-produced commercial software created ten years ago, according Costin Raiu, director of Kaspersky Lab's global research and analysis team.Another important factor in choose of C language instead other more powerful like C++ it the necessity to grant portability of the agent that maybe must be compiled with several standard compiler in different environments. This requirement indicate us that the agent could be used to attack other platforms, not necessary Widows based. u201cObviously when you create such a complex espionage tool, you take into account that maybe some day you will run it on servers, maybe you will want to run it on mobile phones or God knows what other devices, so you just want to make sure your code will work everywhere,u201d Raiu says. The Duqu evolutionNews of these days is that a new variant of Duqu has been isolated, the event confirm the hypothesis made on the evolution of the malware, a work still in progress that will propose in the next year several instances customized to attacks specific targets. The variant found was designed to evade detection mechanism of antivirus products and other security systems. Vikram Thakur, principal security response manager at Symantec, announced that the new Duqu Driver has been identified, let's remind that the module is used for loading the malware's encrypted body stored on the systems. The driver is called mcd9x86.sys and it was compiled on Feb. 23. What is changed in the new driver?The source code appears to be reshuffled and compiled with a different set of options and it also contains a different subroutine for decrypting the configuration block and loading the malware's body. A similar operation has been already observed in October 2011. Of course also the references to C&C server are changed because all old structures were shut down on Oct. 20, 2011. Unfortunately the addresses of this server are not known because principal security firm don't have the full Duqu body but only the loader in the form of the driver, the loader does not contact the C&C directly, it only loads the main body which is stored in encrypted form. What we expect from the future?Surely we will confront with new and dangerous cyber threats that can offend the military and also private sector. Agents such as Stuxnet and Duqu are children of an ambitious and complex project that wants to be able to provide an "evolutionary" threat. Prepare to have to deal with new modules and new features designed to attack specific targets. Let me raise serious doubts on the immediate effectiveness of preventive measures against this new generation of cyber weapons because the industry in general is still too vulnerable. Possible evolutions of malware could cause serious damage to infrastructures that use the systems in question. The only way to emerge unscathed from this awkward situation is a close collaboration between industry, leading manufacturers of control systems and governments, hoping that security will become a requirement in the design phase. Submitted By : Pierluigi PaganiniAbout the Author : Pierluigi Paganini, Security SpecialistCEH - Certified Ethical Hacker, EC CouncilSecurity Affairs ( http://securityaffairs.co/wordpress )Email : pierluigi.paganini@securityaffairs.co" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d8ec6cefc42b002937c0" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Mystery of Duqu Programming Language Solved", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/03/mystery-of-duqu-programming-language.html", "Date" : "2012-03-19T06:09:00-11:00", "Article" : "Mystery of Duqu Programming Language Solved An appeal for help from the programming community has allowed antivirus analysts to classify the unknown language used to develop key components of the Duqu Trojan. The sections responsible for downloading and executing additional modules in the Duqu Trojan, referred to by some as Stuxnet 2.0, were written in standard C++. Kaspersky Lab experts now say with a high degree of certainty that the Duqu framework was written using a custom object-oriented extension to C, generally called u201cOO Cu201d and compiled with Microsoft Visual Studio Compiler 2008 (MSVC 2008) with special options for optimizing code size and inline expansion. Kasperskyu2019s Igor Soumenkov wrote, u201cNo matter which of these two variants is true, the implications are impressive. The Payload DLL contains 95 Kbytes of event-driven code written with OO C, a language that has no automatic memory management or safe pointers,u201d. Kasperskyu2019s analysis now concludes:The Duqu Framework consists of u201cCu201d code compiled with MSVC 2008 using the special options u201c/O1u2033 and u201c/Ob1u2033 The code was most likely written with a custom extension to C, generally called u201cOO Cu201d The event-driven architecture was developed as a part of the Duqu Framework or its OO C extension The C&C code could have been reused from an already existing software project and integrated into the Duqu Trojan The Duqu Framework may have been created by a different programming team, since it is unique to Duqu, unlike many parts of Duqu that seem to be directly borrowed from Stuxnet. Itu2019s believed that the developers are old school that donu2019t trust C++ and thatu2019s probably why they relied on C. Another reason for using OO C is because back in the good old days it was more portable than C++. Knowing the techniques used to develop the malware allows Kaspersky's researchers to make better guesses about who might be behind the code. Creating Duqu was a major project, so itu2019s possible that an entirely different team was responsible for creating the Duqu Framework, while others worked on creating drivers and system infection exploits. In this scenario it's even possible that those who created the Duqu framework were ignorant of the real purpose of their work. Duqu was first detected in September 2011, but Kaspersky Lab believes it has seen the first pieces of Duqu-related malware dating back to August 2007. The Russian security firm also notes Duqu, like Stuxnet before it, is highly targeted and related to Iranu2019s nuclear program." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d8fd6cefc42b002937c8" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Duqu Trojan developed in unknown programming language", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/03/duqu-trojan-developed-in-unknown.html", "Date" : "2012-03-08T04:27:00-11:00", "Article" : "Duqu Trojan developed in unknown programming language Researchers at Kaspersky have reached out for assistance after an investigation into the Duqu Trojan uncovered a section that is written in an unknown programming language. The Russian security company says this new information could help them discover how the worm was able to communicate with its Command and Control (C&C) servers. The C&C servers essentially tell the worm what to do once it has accessed a system. While the majority of Duqu is written in C++, the Framework was not and was not compiled with Microsoftu2019s Visual C++ 2008. Other languages ruled out include Python, Java, Objective C, Ada and Lua.u201cGiven the size of the Duqu project, itu2019s possible that an entirely different team was responsible for creating the Duqu Framework as opposed to the team that created the drivers and wrote the system infection exploits,u201d said Alexander Gostev, chief security expert at Kaspersky Lab, in a statement. The mysterious code could be the work of a separate collaborator, indiciating that multiple parties worked to develop the infection. Kaspersky is hoping that someone in the programming community will recognize it and come forward to identify it. Identification of the language could help analysts build a profile of DuQuu2019s authors, particularly if they can tie the language to a group of people known to use this specialized programming language or even to people who were behind its development. Duqu first emerged in September 2011 and is thought to have been written by the same people behind the infamous Stuxnet worm, which targeted Iran's nuclear facilities and attempted to steal highly sensitive information. Duqu worked along the same lines; acting as a backdoor into a system to steal data. Researchers have noted a number of similarities in the behaviour and spread of Duqu with the infamous Stuxnet malware, leading some researchers to dub Duqu as the successor to Stuxnet." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d91d6cefc42b002937d7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Iran will Develop their own security Software, No more foreign Solution", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/02/iran-will-develop-their-own-security.html", "Date" : "2012-02-21T00:19:00-11:00", "Article" : "Iran will Develop their own security Software, No more foreign Solution According to latest report, Iran's Information and Communications Technology Minister announce that - Iran has prohibited import of foreign computer security software. Because International sanctions stopped Iran from obtaining anti-virus software. So, Iran stressed that no foreign software for computer security will be imported into the country, adding that Iran will rely on its own software, made by local developers. The Bonian Daneshpajouhan Institute has about 25 smaller firms that develop domestic security software of various nature, and country will rely on it. A senior Iranian intelligence official has claimed that an estimated 16,000 computers were infected by the Stuxnet virus, which targeted the country's nuclear facilities and other industrial sites in 2010. The ban is intended to push Iran into the production of its own malware defense instruments. Whether the Stuxnet virus affected only computers within Iran, or whether the virus has infected computers outside the country as well. The virus, specifically designed to target Iran's nuclear facilities and other industrial sites, was created in 2010. Two more espionage viruses were recently uncovered by Iranian officials, The Stars virus embeds itself in the file systems of government institutions, and the Duqu virus gathers information. However, the Islamic Republic has one of the most secure cyberspace in the world with 120 national systems and sub-systems. Iran launched a cyber defense headquarters some four months ago. The key task of cyber defense is to prevent computer worms or as some call it cyber weapons from breaking into or stealing data from Iranu2019s maximum security networks, including nuclear facilities, power plants, data centers and banks." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d9486cefc42b002937eb" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Wait ! It's not just Stuxnet or DuQu , Kaspersky reveals 5 more cousins", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/01/wait-its-not-just-stuxnet-or-duqu.html", "Date" : "2012-01-02T10:48:00-11:00", "Article" : "Wait ! It's not just Stuxnet or DuQu , Kaspersky reveals 5 more cousins Russian computer security outfit Kaspersky Lab said that the Stuxnet virus that damaged Iran's nuclear programme was likely to be one of at least five cyber weapons developed on a single platform. The viruses have never been seen 'in the wild' - and it's unclear whether they, like Stuxnet, would be built to cause failures at nuclear plants, or engineered for another purpose. Both Stuxnet and Duqu appear to have been created back in late 2007 or early 2008, and other pieces of malware with similar capabilities were built on the same platform, Gostev said. Gostev examined two key drivers and variants that were used in both Stuxnet and Duqu, as well as two previously unknown drivers that were similar to the ones used. Not only did the same group of people develop Stuxnet and Duqu, but they likely worked simultaneously on multiple variants, Gostev said. The other pieces may be in the wild and not yet detected, or the developers may have decided not to release them, he said. Overall, Kaspersky found seven types of drivers from the family with similar characteristics, and for three of them thereu2019s no knowledge of which malicious program they were used in conjunction with.Alexander Gostev, Chief Security Expert at Kaspersky, commented: u201cThe drivers from the still unknown malicious programs cannot be attributed to activity of the Stuxnet and Duqu Trojans. The methods of dissemination of Stuxnet would have brought about a large number of infections with these drivers; and they canu2019t be attributed either to the more targeted Duqu Trojan due to the compilation date.u201d Researchers with Kaspersky have not found any new types of malware built on the Tilded platform, Raiu said, but they are fairly certain that they exist because shared components of Stuxnet and Duqu appear to be searching for their kin.When a machine becomes infected with Duqu or Stuxnet, the programs search for two unique registry keys on the PC linked to Duqu and Stuxnet that are then used to load the main piece of malware onto the computer, he said. "We believe Duqu and Stuxnet were simultaneous projects supported by the same team of developers," Gostev wrote.The developers are tweaking ready-made files instead of creating new drivers from scratch, which allows them to make as many different driver files as they like, each having exactly the same functionality and creation date, Gostev said. These files can also be signed with legitimate digital certificates and packaged into different variants." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d94c6cefc42b002937ed" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "The Hacker News Hacking Awards : Best of Year 2011", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/01/hacker-news-hacking-awards-best-of-year.html", "Date" : "2011-12-31T02:00:00-11:00", "Article" : "The Hacker News Hacking Awards : Best of Year 2011 2011 has been labeled the "Year of the Hacku201d or u201cEpic #Fail 2011u201d. Hacking has become much easier over the years, which is why 2011 had a lot of hacking for good and for bad. Hackers are coming up with tools as well as finding new methods for hacking faster then companies can increase their security. Every year there are always forward advancements in the tools and programs that can be used by the hackers. At the end of year 2011 we decided to give "The Hacker News Awards 2011". The Hacker News Awards will be an annual awards ceremony celebrating the achievements and failures of security researchers and the Hacking community. The THN Award is judged by a panel of respected security researchers and Editors at The Hacker News. Year 2011 came to an end following Operation Payback and Antisec, which targeted companies refusing to accept payments to WikiLeak's, such as, Visa and Amazon. Those attacks were carried out by Anonymous & Lulzsec. This year corporations, international agencies, and governments are now experiencing a flood of what is called Advanced Persistent Threats. APTs refer to a group of well-funded, highly capable hackers pursuing a specific agenda, often organized by a nation or State. Sony somehow pissed off the hacking group LulzSec, which downloaded information for millions of users, while posting to Sony's system: "LulzSec was here you sexy bastards! Stupid Sony, so very stupid." The Hacker News Awards Categories & Winners 1.) Person of the Year : Julian Paul Assange He is, of course, the lean, tall, and pale 39-year-old Australian master hacker at the white-hot center of the whistle-blowing website WikiLeaks and, after revealing thousands of secret Afghan battlefield reports this week, the subject of investigation by U.S. authorities. 2011 could also be called the u201cAge of WikiLeaksu201d. Assange described himself in a private conversation as "the heart and soul of this organisation, its founder, philosopher, spokesperson, original coder, organizer, financier, and all the rest". Wikileaks celebrate its 5th Birthday on 4th October 2011, for being only 5 years old they have done a remarkable and outstanding job of serving the people. The one thing most governments in the world have left off their agendau2019s. Keep up the good work Wikileaks and we stand in support and behind you. 2.) Best Hacking Group of the Year 2011 : ANONYMOUS DECK THE HALLS AND BATTON DOWN THE SECURITY SYSTEMSu2026..THEY AINu2019T GOIN AWAY!Anonymous hackers have gained world wide attention because of their hacktivism. Anonymous is not an organization. Anonymous has no leaders, no gurus, no ideologists. Anonymous has performed many operations like Attack on HBGary Federal, 2011 Bank of America document release, Operation Sony, Operation Anti-Security and lots more. Complete Coverage on all Anonymous related news is here. 3.) Best Whitehat hacker of the Year 2011 : CHARLIE MILLER CHARLIE SHOWS TUNA ISNu2019T THE ONLY THING TO PROFIT FROM!Charlie Miller is a former hacker who has become an information security consultant now working with the Department of Defense (DOD) and helping out with cyber security. He spent five years working for the National Security Agency. Miller demonstrated his hacks publicly on products manufactured by Apple. In 2008 he won a $10,000 cash prize at the hacker conference Pwn2Own in Vancouver Canada for being the first to find a critical bug in the ultrathin MacBook Air. The next year, he won $5,000 for cracking Safari. In 2009 he also demonstrated an SMS processing vulnerability that allowed for complete compromise of the Apple iPhone and denial-of-service attacks on other phones. In 2011 he found a security hole in an iPhone's or iPad's security. Charlie Miller gets a kick of out defeating Appleu2019s security mechanisms, using his hacking skills to break into Macbooks and iPhones. 4.) Best Leak of the year 2011 : HBGARY FEDERAL EMAILS LEAKED BY ANONYMOUS GEE GREG, YOU THOUGHT WE JUST PLAYED WITH MATEL COMPUTERS! NOT!!!!!HBGary Federal who was helping the federal government track down cyber activists was itself hacked by the very same activists! Gotta love these guys. Through an elegant but by the numbers social engineering effort those fun fellas at Anonymous, hacked and publicly shamed poor little HBGary Federal. Massive reputation damage and tons of turn-over in executive leadership resulted. Anonymous released 27,000 emails from the server of Greg Hoglund, chief executive of the software security firm HBGary. They posted 50,000 emails of Aaron Barr from the CEO of its sister organization, HBGary Federal. They obtained the emails by hacking into Hoglundu2019s email. 5.) Best Defacement of the Year 2011 : DNS HIJACKING OF HIGH PROFILE SITES BY TURKGUVENLIGI TURKGUVENLIGIu2026u2026..THE GIFT THAT KEEPS ON GIVING!!Turkguvenligi also known by the name "TG Hacker' hacked some very high profile sites using DNS Hijacking. Sites included, Theregister.co.uk , Vodafone, Telegraph, Acer, National Geographic. He diverted visitors to a page declaring it was u201cWorld Hackers Dayu201d. TurkGuvenligi has claimed credit for dozens of similar defacement attacks since late 2008. 6.) Craziest Hack of the year: INMOTION HOSTING (Over 700,000 Websites Hacked) BEWARE OF TIGERu2019S IN MOTIONu2026u2026.COMING TO YOUR WEBSITE SOON!InMotion's data center got hit by the hacker that calls himself TiGER-M@TE, leaving a few hundred thousand website owners with nonfunctional pages and 700,000 web Pages defaced . He is also the one responsible for the attack carried out on Google Bangladesh. In our humble opinion, this is the craziest hack of the year. 7.) Malware of Year 2011 : DuQu ALAH CANu2019T HELP IRANu2026u2026.NOT WITH DuQu ON THE LOOSE!This year was really hot on malware discovery and analysis. DuQu became the first known network modular rootkit. DuQu has flexibility for hackers to help remove and add new features quickly and without special effort. Some experts have doubts on relation between the Stuxnet and DuQu creators as they both aim for stealing and collecting data related to Iranian agencies activities. 8.) Best Hacking Tool of the Year 2011 - ANTI (Android Network Toolkit) HEY CYBER WORLD, STICK THIS IN YOUR TOOL BELT!ANTI is the smallest but most powerful hacking tool developed by the company Zimperium. Anti-Android Network Toolkit is an app that uses WiFi scanning tools to scan networks. You can scan a network that you have the phone connected to or you can scan any other nearby open networks. Security admins can use Anti to test network host vulnerabilities for DoS attacks and other threats. Features : OS detection, traceroute, port connect, Wi-Fi monitor, HTTP server, man-in-the-middle threats, remote exploits, Password Cracker and DoS attack and plugins. 9.) High Profile Hacker of the Year 2011 : LULZSEC LULZSEC KEEPS US LAUGHING ALL THROUGH 2011!Lulz Security, commonly abbreviated as LulzSec, is a computer hacker group that claims responsibility for several high profile attacks, including the compromise of user accounts from Sony Pictures in 2011. The group also claimed responsibility for taking the CIA website offline. It has gained attention due to its high profile targets and the sarcastic messages it has posted in the aftermath of its attacks. The group's first recorded attack was against Fox.com's website. LulzSec does not appear to hack for financial profit. The group's claimed main motivation is to have fun by causing mayhem. They do things "for the lulz" and focus on the possible comedic and entertainment value of attacking targets. 10.) Biggest Victim of the Year 2011 : SONY SONY SHINES AS THE BIGGEST VICTIM OF ALL!Sony gets the Most Epic fail award so we want to give the Best Victim of the year award to Sony. Almost all Sonyu2019s websites including Indonesia, Japan, Thailand, Greece, Canada, Netherlands, Europe, Russia, Portugal & Sony PlayStation Network were Hacked. Defacement of various domains of Sony and Personal information of 77 million people, including customer names, addresses, e-mail addresses, birthdays, PlayStation Network and Qriocity passwords, user names, online handles and possibly credit cards were exposed. Sony expects the hack of the PlayStation Network and cost at u00a514 billion (US$170 million) . 11.) Most Spamy Social Network : FACEBOOK FACEBOOK OUTTA FACE ITu2026u2026..ITu2019S A RIPE TARGET FOR 2012Social network sites such as Facebook, Google+ or Twitter are gaining popularity. But the 'Web 2.0' presents new dangers. The wave of pornographic and violent images, Spam messages, Virus and various Worms that flooded Facebook over the past year, make it the Most Spamy Social Network of the Year. Social media is the new frontier for all of this spam. The attack tricked users into clicking on a story they thought would bring them a related video or picture. Instead, Facebook members were taken to websites that attacked their browsers with malicious software and posted violent and disturbing images to their news feeds. 12.) Most Vulnerable Mobile OS of Year 2011 : ANDROIDS MALWARE GETS A FREE RIDE ON MOBILE DEVICES!Mobile devices are seeing a record number of Malware attacks, with Androids leading the way as the mobile operating systems are the most likely to be targeted. Androidu2019s vulnerability to malicious content including third-party apps, SMS Trojan viruses and unexpected bugs distributed through free Wi-Fi connections has risen by 45% in 2011. This year we have seen record-breaking numbers of Malware, especially on mobile devices, where the uptake is in direct correlation to popularity. 13.) Best Hacking Book of the Year: BACKTRACK 5 WIRELESS PENETRATION TESTING ATTENTION CLASS, VIVEK RAMACHANDRAN HAS ENTERED THE ROOM!Vivek Ramachandran is a world renowned security researcher and evangelist, who is well known for his discovery of the Wireless Caffe Latte attack, and author of the most amazing book u201cBackTrack 5 Wireless Penetration Testing. This book is written completely from a practical perspective. The book wastes no time in delving into a hands-on session with wireless networking. All the way through there are lots of screengrabs, so you can see what should be happening on your screen. 14.) Most Innovative Hack : DIGITAL CERTIFICATES SPOOFING BY COMODO HACKER COMODOHACKER BRINGS OUT THE DRAGON IN CYBER SECURITY CONCERNSThe name "Comodohacker" gets the most Innovative Hacker award from THN for the breach of the Internet's trust system arising from an outmoded method for assuring that a Web site is authentic. A breach that let a hacker spoof digital certificates for Google.com, Yahoo.com, and other Web sites is prompting browser makers to rethink security. A 21-year-old Iranian patriot took credit saying he was protesting US policy and retaliating against the US for its alleged involvement with last yearu2019s Stuxnet, which experts say was designed to target Iranu2019s nuclear program. 15.) Biggest hack of the Year 2011 : SONY PLAYSTATION SONY, SONY, WE PLAY YOUR LEAKS ON OUR OWN STATIONS!The PlayStation Network is an online multiplayer gaming and digital media delivery service owned and run by Sony Computer Entertainment .On April 26, 2011 Sony Playstation announced its network and Qriocity had both been compromised by hackers between April 17 and April 19 allowing access to 70 million user accounts. Get full coverage on this News.u201cTRUTH IS THE MOST POWERFUL WEAPON AGAINST INJUSTICEu201dFor additional information, please contact us at: thehackernews@gmail.com" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d9596cefc42b002937f4" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "US ,Israel or Russia , Who is Behind Stuxnet?", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/12/us-israel-or-russia-who-is-behind.html", "Date" : "2011-12-12T06:09:00-11:00", "Article" : "US ,Israel or Russia , Who is Behind Stuxnet ? Initially After Symantec did a little reverse engineering on the now infamous Stuxnet worm, many started pointing the finger at the US and Israel, especially since it was concluded that the piece of malware was designed to target a specific version of the Siemens SCADA programmable logic controls (PLC) operating in certain nuclear facilities from Iran. Ralph Langner told a conference in California that the malicious software was designed to cripple systems that could help build an Iranian bomb.Mr Langner was one of the first researchers to show how Stuxnet could take control of industrial equipment. Dr. Panayotis A. Yannakogeorgos is a cyber defense analyst with the U.S. Air Force Research Institute. He told the Diplomat that the one weak point in the theory that the US and Israel hit the Iranian nuclear problem with Stuxnet is that both sides denied it when they would not have had to. Yannakogeorgos said that the Russians could have equally carried out the attack. Apparenly the Russians are not that happy about an Iranian indigenous nuclear capability even if they are helping build it. In brief, the case for the United States having designed and developed Stuxnet is as follows: First, neither the United States nor Israel wants Iran to develop nuclear weapons. The worm, then, is seen as likely part of a covert strategy to delay or destroy Iranu2019s nuclear infrastructure while stopping short of war. The weapon was designed to target a specific version of the Siemens SCADA programmable logic controls (PLC) operating a specific configuration and number of cascading centrifuges found in Iran. Some analysts point to the fact that there were vulnerability assessments being run at Idaho National Labs on Siemens PLC software. Others note that the design of the cyber weapon closely fit Richard Clarku2019s description in Cyber War of a well-designed and ethically thought out weapon limiting collateral damage due to a vast army of lawyers scrutinizing the effects. The malware-analyst community, meanwhile, points to digital code strings such as u201cb:myrtusu201d taken from biblical events important to Israeli identity. And, as the story goes, after the political decisions, vulnerability assessments, and weapon design took place, either an Iranian agent was found to take the USB memory stick into the nuclear facility, or all the computers around the plants were infected with Stuxnet via the conficker worm. Russia has a good reason not to want Iran to get its paws on nuclear technology. In 1995, for example, Chechen rebels planted a "dirty bomb" in Moscow's Izmailovsky Park. Nuclear material is much more secure in Russia but if Iran develops a full-blown nuclear capability, Chechen or other violent extremist and nationalist rebels go to Iran to buy the material. The Stuxnet attack may be coupled with an assassination campaign targeting Iranian nuclear and computer scientists and various leaks suggesting covert action, all made for a compelling case of U.S. involvement. But whether it was the United States or Russia behind it, itu2019s clear that in Stuxnetu2019s aftermath, and with the emergence of other worms within their systems, Iranian nuclear engineers have less confidence in the accuracy of sensor information on digital displays. All this means that thereu2019s now no need for the U.S. or Russia to say anything on the issue internal conflict in the minds of those responsible for Iranu2019s nuclear program is doing a perfectly good job of delaying progress." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d96c6cefc42b002937fc" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet 3.0 to be possibility released at MalCon?", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/11/stuxnet-30-to-be-possibility-released.html", "Date" : "2011-11-15T06:16:00-11:00", "Article" : "Stuxnet 3.0 to be possibility released at MalCon? Malware coders and security researchers are increasingly looking at MalCon malware convention to show-off their latest creations and research. We were pretty shocked to see in a twitter update today from MalCon, that one of the research paper submissions shortlisted is on possible features of Stuxnet 3.0. While this may just be a discussion and not a release, it is interesting to note that the speaker Nima Bagheri presenting the paper is from IRAN. For refreshing your memory, Stuxnet is a computer worm discovered in June 2010. It targets Siemens industrial software and equipment running Microsoft Windows.While it is not the first time that hackers have targeted industrial systems,it is the first discovered malware that spies on and subverts industrial systems, and the first to include a programmable logic controller (PLC) rootkit. What is alarming is the recent discovery (On 1 September 2011) of a new worm - thought to be related to Stuxnet. The Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS) of the Budapest University of Technology and Economics analyzed the malware, naming the threat Duqu. Symantec, based on this report, continued the analysis of the threat, calling it "nearly identical to Stuxnet, but with a completely different purpose", and published a detailed technical paper.The main component used in Duqu is designed to capture information such as keystrokes and system information. The exfiltrated data may be used to enable a future Stuxnet-like attack. The research paper abstract discusses rootkit features and the malware authors may likely show demonstration at MalCon with new research releated to hiding rootkits and advanced stuxnet like malwares. Released or not, MalCon certainly leaves plently of room for imagination of the future with computing - and hope we don't get to live the Die Hard 4.0 someday." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d96d6cefc42b002937fd" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Duqu computer virus Detected by Iran civil defense organization", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/11/duqu-computer-virus-detected-by-iran.html", "Date" : "2011-11-13T10:37:00-11:00", "Article" : "Duqu computer virus Detected by Iran civil defense organization The virus is called W32.Duqu, or just Duqu create fear after the opening Pandorau2019s Box of Stuxnet. The head of Iran's civil defense organization told the official IRNA news agency that computers at all main sites at risk were being checked and that Iran had developed software to combat the virus. First, Duqu is not deigned to harm industrial automation. The software basically attacks windows systems. Instead of sabotaging industrial control, Duqu has been general remote access capabilities. Duqu has a key logger and can save passwords etc.. The malware uses HTTP and HTTPS to communicate to a command and control (C&C) server at 206.183.111.97, which is hosted in India, the IP is inactive as of October 18th. Duqu infiltrates systems directly it is not a worm like Stuxnet and needs to be placed directly, e.g. through infected mails.Duqu also the certificate of C-Media Electronics Incorporation, a Taiwanese audio chip producer. "We are in the initial phase of fighting the Duqu virus," Gholamreza Jalali, was quoted as saying. "The final report which says which organizations the virus has spread to and what its impacts are has not been completed yet. All the organizations and centers that could be susceptible to being contaminated are being controlled," he said. So far Duqu was found on less than 10 computers from European companies, which are developing industrial control software, according to a Symantec-Analyst. The software is programmed to remove itself automatically after 36 days. The complete set up: Invades target (not wormlike), spies out passwords, and removes itself u2013 hopefully without being detected u2013 seems like Duqu actually prepares an attack. This is also assumed by F-secure, u201citu2019s possible we'll eventually see a new attack targeting PLC systems, based on the information gathered by Duqu.u201d" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d9746cefc42b00293800" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CrySyS Duqu Detector Open source Toolkit Released", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/11/crysys-duqu-detector-open-source.html", "Date" : "2011-11-10T06:46:00-11:00", "Article" : "CrySyS Duqu Detector Open source Toolkit Released Two weeks ago Researchers at the Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS) in Hungary confirmed the existence of the zero-day vulnerability in the Windows kernel, according to security researchers tracking the Stuxnet-like cyber-surveillance Trojan. The Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS) has released an open-source toolkit that can find traces of Duqu infections on computer networks.The open-source toolkit, from the Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS), contains signature- and heuristics-based methods that can find traces of Duqu infections where components of the malware are already removed from the system. They make a release that "The toolkit contains signature and heuristics based methods and it is able to find traces of infections where components of the malware are already removed from the system.The intention behind the tools is to find different types of anomalies (e.g., suspicious files) and known indicators of the presence of Duqu on the analyzed computer. As other anomaly detection tools, it is possible that it generates false positives. Therefore, professional personnel is needed to elaborate the resulting log files of the tool and decide about further steps." This toolkit contains very simple, easy-to-analyze program source code, thus it may also be used in special environments, e.g. in critical infrastructures, after inspection of the source code (to check that there is no backdoor or malicious code inside) and recompiling. You can download it from Here" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d9796cefc42b00293803" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "DUQU u2013 Another Stuxnet in the Making ?", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/11/duqu-another-stuxnet-in-making.html", "Date" : "2011-11-06T05:00:00-11:00", "Article" : "DUQU u2013 Another Stuxnet in the Making ? Article by : Nidhi Rastogi is a Cyber security professional based in New York. Article shared from THE HACKER NEWS magazine - November Edition. You can download Complete Magazine here. Barely a year into discovering Stuxnet, the world recently saw its powerful variant in the form of Duqu. It is believed that a Hungarian blogger was the first to have a tryst with the virus in early September at an ISP hosting service. Why it is important: Duqu has gained a lot of attention because of striking similarities with its famous predecessor, Stuxnet. Several Security researchers have concluded that 99 percent of Duqu software rules are same as Stuxnet including source code and keys for encryption. There is reasonable evidence by now that the damage caused by Stuxnet was real. Hence, Duqu is of concern to every security professional at the moment. How it functions: Duqu camouflages its own data behind normal web traffic to avoid suspicion from network administrators. This information is then sent over to a remote command and control server (CC server) using http request. The server responds with a blank JPG image, in response to which, Duqu sends back an image appended with encrypted stolen information. The IP address of the CC server used for these initial operations was 206.183.111.97 and was tracked to India. The CC server has been deactivated since then. The Trojan horse, unlike Stuxnet, is able to record keystrokes, collect various details of system which is then encrypted and appended to an image file. The data may simply be configuration and design data from the systems, presumably to allow someone get competitive advantage. The Trojan has been configured to run on the host machine for 36-days, after which the threat vector will automatically destroy itself from the system. However, additional components sent from the CC server can extend the life beyond this time period.Purpose: Duqu appears to be focusing on data mining right now, scouting host machine to gain information or features about the environment. The real purpose of spreading the Trojan has been obscure and the data collection may just be an initial stage of a larger setup. Complexity: There is nothing novel about the attack vector and it can be safely assumed that the creator at least had access to Stuxnet code. Once a certain piece is in circulation, others build upon it. And this may be the case with Duqu. Duqu too, like Stuxnet, uses a stolen digital certificate from a Taiwanese company to prove its authenticity. Also, Duqu couldnu2019t have been around for too long since the driver sign date has been recorded to be July 2011. There is also a likelihood of the same team being employed to create the Stuxnet variant. Like the Stuxnet, Duqu too is a State sponsored attack, since no other party would engage in an activity that requires ample technical caliber but brings no obvious monetary benefit. Other Theories: Various theories are floating around about the motive and origin of Duqu. One of the interesting one is by @reversemode on twitter. According to him, one of the galaxy pictures comes from 66.49.141.227, which suggests Hebrew connection with Duqu. In the past 1 week, a few more variants have been discovered, but not much can be said about them as it too early. Analysis: Duqu gives the impression of something much bigger coming up than what meets the eye. It is also interesting to note that the techniques used to deploy these attacks are not state of the art. The depth of information that can be extracted using Duqu is no different from what Stuxnet could do. Neither is it any more sophisticated from what we have seen with Aurora. They were intriguing because of the coming together of a possibly destructive operation of their stature. But itu2019s not the same with Duqu. Apart from the complexities it shares with its predecessor, Duqu creators have also used age-old techniques u2013 bad password policy, use of USB drive outside of work and the likes to aid spread the virus. So what is it about this trojan-virus that is catching every eye-ball? Duqu bears testimony to the beginning of an era where cyber war will grow bigger than nuclear and the likes. It is not that we were caught unaware of nation states espionage programs this time. It is the frequency with which they were discovered corroborates the theory that future will see a steep rise in cybercrime. Dealing with this is going to be a major focus for a majority of us security professionals.DUQU in news :Duqu malware was created to spy on Iran's nuclear program Duqu Trojan found in Indian Server Duqu Analysis and Detection Tool by NSS Labs Stuxnet's Son "Duqu" Removal Tool released by Bitdefender Windows Kernel Zero Day Vulnerability Found in Duqu Installer" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d97c6cefc42b00293804" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Duqu malware was created to spy on Iran's nuclear program", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/11/duqu-malware-was-created-to-spy-on.html", "Date" : "2011-11-05T19:24:00-11:00", "Article" : "Duqu malware was created to spy on Iran's nuclear program A Report by Kaspersky Lab Expert, Ryan Naraine says that the DUQU malware was created to spy on Iran's nuclear program. IrCERT (Iran's Computer Emergency Response Team) Duqu is an upgraded version of "Stars". Back in April this year, The Iranian government says it is being targeted by a new piece of malware aimed at its federal computers. Also its confirm that some of the targets of Duqu were hit on April 21, using the same method involving CVE-2011-3402, a kernel level exploit in win32k.sys via embedded True Type Font (TTF) file. In both cases a malware similar to Stuxnet found in systems and stealing information. Do you think these relate to each other ? If we are to believe these reports, then it means that Duqu was created in order to spy on Iran's nuclear program. Another interesting part of information is that more than 10 nations have supplied intelligence suggesting Iran is secretly developing components of a nuclear arms program - among them an implosion-type. New intelligence the U.N. atomic agency plans to release on alleged nuclear weapons work by Iran is fabricated, the Iranian foreign minister. Whereas , Iran dismisses reported UN claims of nuclear work. There are high possibility that Stars and Duqu were used to collect such information." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d9836cefc42b00293808" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Windows Kernel Zero Day Vulnerability Found in Duqu Installer", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/11/windows-kernel-zero-day-vulnerability.html", "Date" : "2011-11-01T08:17:00-11:00", "Article" : "Windows Kernel Zero Day Vulnerability Found in Duqu Installer Duqu malware attack exploited a zero-day vulnerability in the Windows kernel, according to security researchers tracking the Stuxnet-like cyber-surveillance Trojan. The vulnerability has since been reported to Microsoft and Microsoft is working on a fix for the kernel vulnerability right now. Researchers at the Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS) in Hungary confirmed the existence of the zero-day vulnerability and exploit in a brief note posted to its web site. Our lab, the Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS) pursued the analysis of the Duqu malware and as a result of our investigation, we identified a dropper file with an MS 0-day kernel exploit inside. We immediately provided competent organizations with the necessary information such that they can take appropriate steps for the protection of the users. The installer file is a Microsoft Word document (.doc) that exploits a previously unknown kernel vulnerability that allows code execution. We contacted Microsoft regarding the vulnerability and they're working diligently towards issuing a patch and advisory. When the file is opened, malicious code executes and installs the main Duqu binaries. The chart below explains how the exploit in the Word document file eventually leads to the installation of Duqu. Other security vendors have reported infections in the following countries: u2022 Austria u2022 Hungary u2022 Indonesia u2022 United Kingdom u2022 Iran - infections different from those observed by Symantec. "Microsoft is collaborating with our partners to provide protections for a vulnerability used in targeted attempts to infect computers with the Duqu malware. We are working diligently to address this issue and will release a security update for customers through our security bulletin process," Jerry Bryant, group manager of response communications in Microsoft's Trustworthy Computing group said in a statement. You can find Symantec updated whitepaper (version 1.3) here. Key updates in the Symantec whitepaper include:u2022 An unpatched zero-day vulnerability is exploited through a Microsoft Word document and installs Duqu u2022 Attackers can spread Duqu to computers in secure zones and control them through a peer-to-peer C&C protocol u2022 Six possible organizations in eight countries have confirmed infections u2022 A new C&C server (77.241.93.160) hosted in Belgium was discovered and has been shut down. [Source]" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d9876cefc42b0029380a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Duqu Trojan found in Indian Server", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/10/duqu-trojan-found-in-indian-server.html", "Date" : "2011-10-30T02:44:00-11:00", "Article" : "Duqu Trojan found in Indian Server Last week we update you about Duqu when Symantec said it had found a mysterious computer virus that contained code similar to Stuxnet, a piece of malware believed to have wreaked havoc on Iran's nuclear program. Two workers at a web-hosting company called Web Werks told Reuters that officials from India's Department of Information Technology last week took several hard drives and other components from a server that security firm Symantec Corp told them was communicating with computers infected with Duqu. The equipment seized from Web Werks, a privately held company in Mumbai with about 200 employees, might hold valuable data to help investigators determine who built Duqu and how it can be used. But putting the pieces together is a long and difficult process, experts said. "This one is challenging," said Marty Edwards, director of the US Department of Homeland Security's Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team. "It's a very complex piece of software." The Duqu trojan is composed of several malicious files that work together for a malicious purpose.Duqu appears to be more narrowly targeted than Stuxnet as researchers estimate the new trojan virus has infected at most dozens of machines so far. By comparison, Stuxnet spread much more quickly, popping up on thousands of computer systems. Security firms including Dell Inc's SecureWorks, Intel Corp's McAfee, Kaspersky Lab and Symantec say they found Duqu victims in Europe, Iran, Sudan and the United States. They declined to provide their identities. Duqu so named because it creates files with "DQ" in the prefix -- was designed to steal secrets from the computers it infects, researchers said, such as design documents from makers of highly sophisticated valves, motors, pipes and switches. Duqu and Stuxnet both use a kernel driver to decrypt and load encrypted DLL (Dynamic Load Library) files. The kernel drivers serve as an "injection" engine to load these DLLs into a specific process. This technique is not unique to either Duqu or Stuxnet and has been observed in other unrelated threats. "We are a little bit behind in the game," said Don Jackson, a director of the Dell SecureWorks Counter Threat Unit. "Knowing what these guys are doing, they are probably a step ahead." [Source]" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d9906cefc42b0029380d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet's Son "Duqu" Removal Tool released by Bitdefender", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/10/stuxnets-son-duqu-removal-tool-released.html", "Date" : "2011-10-21T03:57:00-11:00", "Article" : "Stuxnet's Son "Duqu" Removal Tool released by BitdefenderRootkit.Duqu is a new e-threat that combines the technology of the military-grade Stuxnet with an advanced keylogger and backdoor application. Due to its rootkit technology, the piece of malware can stay hidden from the user, the operating systemu2019s defense mechanism and even from regular antivirus utilities.Just like its predecessor u2013 the Stuxnet rootkit - Rootkit.Duqu.A is digitally signed with a stolen digital certificate that has been revoked in the meantime. This allows it to install itself on both 32- and 64-bit operating systems on Windows platforms ranging from Windows XP to Windows 7. The Duqu rootkit runs on the computer for 36 days and collects any kind of information entered via the keyboard, including passwords, e-mail or IM conversations. After the u201csurveillanceu201d period ends, the rootkit gracefully removes itself from the system, along with the keylogger component. Rootkit malware is extremely difficult to detect, as it manages to subvert the operating system before it is fully loaded. Rootkit removal can be challenging even for some antivirus solutions, so manual removal is not recommended. We offer a free and fully automated removal tool that takes care of everything for you. You only have to download and run it on the system, then reboot the PC if infection is found. Here is a complete rundown of the steps you need to take: 1. Download the Duqu_Removal_Tool.zip (.zip file), then double-click on it chose "Extract all files..." from the File menu, and follow the wizard's instructions. You can use any other decompression utility, like WinZip. 2. Navigate to the folder you have extracted the tool in, find the file called Duqu_Removal_tool.exe and double-click on it. Press the Scan button and let the removal tool scan your PC. 3. If you have Windows Vista with User Access Control enabled, or if you are running as a restricted user in Windows XP, right click the Duqu_Removal_tool.exe program and choose "Run as Administrator". You will be prompted to enter credentials for an admin account. 4. Press the OK button when the removal tool asks for a reboot. 5. If you don't already have permanent antivirus protection or if your current antivirus has failed you, consider using the advanced protection tool provided by BitDefender. Download Rootkit.Duqu.A Removal Tool" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d9a06cefc42b00293815" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Reality Based Cyber Crime Novella Explores Aftermath of Stuxnet Attack On Iran", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/10/reality-based-cyber-crime-novella.html", "Date" : "2011-10-14T07:03:00-11:00", "Article" : "Reality Based Cyber Crime Novella Explores Aftermath of Stuxnet Attack On Iran GRAND RAPIDS u2013 Cyber Styletto is a new novella by a journalist, a writer, and a security expert who have pooled their talents to create an enthralling good read that is future forward and predictive. The facts are based on real vulnerabilities in the way the Internet is constructed. Recent cyber security attacks using sophisticated malware (think Stuxnet) and social engineering techniques have raised the bar for defenders. Cyber Styletto pivots off these cyber events to educate and entertain. It is written as fact-based fiction. The story comes from the minds of Gian DeTorre and Mike Brennan. DeTorre is the pen name of an award winning fiction writer and literary critic whose stories and reviews have been published worldwide. u201cCyber Styletto is a new genre in literature, bringing the modern, secretive world of cyber espionage together with a good, old-fashioned thriller,u201d DeTorre said. I hope our audience has as much fun reading it as we had producing it. Brennan has been a journalist for more than thirty years covering science, technology, and business for newspapers in the US. For the past decade he has been editor and publisher of MITechNews.Com. The cyber security technology featured in the novella has been verified by security expert Richard Stiennon, Chief Research Analyst at IT-Harvest. Stiennon has been in the security field since 1995. He is the author of u201cSurviving Cyberwaru201d and technology consultant to Cyber Styletto, the first of a series of novellas that will chronicle todayu2019s very dangerous Internet world. "Sometimes it is difficult to explain the complexity of advanced cyber attacks. Cyber Styletto succeeds in highlighting the potential for abuse of our networked world by bad actors; and it does so in an entertaining good read!" Added Brennan: u201cWhen I started working with Richard more than a year ago on what we thought would be a great science fiction tale, we had no idea that when we published it our fiction would turn to fact,u201d Brennan said. u201cOur plot and many of the characters are ripped from todayu2019s headlines. The novella morphed from a good story to a great read when Gian joined the team. We believe we have written a story every cyber security professional and government policy makers should read carefully.u201d The eBook sells for $2.99 and is available at Smashwords.Com The paperback sells for $13.37 and is available at LuLu.Com You can reach Brennan via phone at (616) 205-4320. An illustrated paperback version will be released late summer. Cyber Styletto: Read it, learn it, stay secure." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d9c46cefc42b00293826" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Its Fail 2011 - Year of Hacks !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/09/its-fail-2011-year-of-hacks.html", "Date" : "2011-09-16T08:44:00-11:00", "Article" : "Its Fail 2011 - Year of Hacks ! According to IT security experts Year 2011 have labeled as the "Year of the Hacku201d or u201c#Fail 2011u201d. Hacking has become much easier over the years allowing hackers to hack into systems easier then ever before, which is why 2011 had a lot of hacking happen so far. Hackers are coming up with tools as well as finding new methods to hacking faster then companies can increase their security. Even, Every year is the year of the hacking as long as there are hackers out there ready to execute their malicious programs and attain their goals like gathering important information to the victim's computer, stealing important identities, credit card information, etc. This year 2011 could be another generation of hacking. Since every year there are always forward advancements of the tools and programs that could use by the hackers. The most important is to avoid them if you are a computer user. RSA Hack (3/17/2011) : Motive - Unknown attacker, although China believed to be suspect. Motive is probably espionage Method - Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) targeted at individuals within an organization using social engineering. Malware hidden in an Excel spreadsheet exploited a zero-day (unpatched) Flash hole. Harm - SecurID token deployments at financial, government and other sites were at risk. Comodo Hack and several of its digital certificate resellers (3/23/2011) : Motive - 21-year-old Iranian patriot took credit saying he was protesting US policy and retaliating against the US for its alleged involvement with last yearu2019s Stuxnet, which experts say was designed to target Iranu2019s nuclear program. Method - Compromise of digital certificate registry authorities led to the theft of digital certificates that are used by sites to prove they are who they are legitimate. Harm - If they had not been revoked the faked certificates could have been used to spoof sites like Google, Yahoo,Microsoft and Skype. Sony (Indonesia, Japan , Thailand, Greece , Canada, Netherlands, Europe, Russia, Portugal) & Sony PlayStation Network Hacked (4/6/2011-6/8/2011) : Motive - Lulzsec ,Anonymous, Lebanese hacker Idahc and various other hackers organized the attack in retaliation for Sony attempting to identify visitors to PlayStation 3 hacker George Hotz' blog site, as well as seeking data from his Twitter and YouTube accounts as part of a lawsuit. The case was later settled out of court. Method - Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS), Sql injection Harm - Defacement of various domains of Sony and Personal information of 77 million people, including customer names, addresses, e-mail addresses, birthdays, PlayStation Network and Qriocity passwords, user names, online handles and possibly credit cards were exposed. Fox Network's X Factor (5/7/2011) : Attacker - Lulzsec Harm - X factor contestants personal information exposed and internal Fox data exposed. PBS.org - Public Broadcasting Service Hacked (5/30/2011) : Attacker - LulzSec in retaliation over Frontline Wikileaks program they considered biased Method - zero-day exploit in Movable Type 4 Harm - Passwords were leaked and a fake news article was published on the page. 100's of Gmail users (6/1/2011) : Motive - Google says attack originated in China and appeared designed to monitor communications of journalists, political activists and military personnel. Method - After stealing passwords with a phishing attack, perpetrators apparently used the passwords to change Gmail users' forwarding and delegation settings. Harm - Attack was "disrupted" but it's unknown if any snooping was accomplished. Acer Europe Hacked (6/3/2011) : Attacker - Pakistan Cyber Army Method - Stupidity of Server admin Harm - Source code and user data of 40,000 people reportedly compromised. FBI partner Infragard Atlanta Hacked (6/3/2011) : Motive - LulzSec, in an attempt to embarrass the FBI and security firm government contractors Harm - Site was hacked, defaced and 180 Infragard usernames and passwords were leaked. Citigroup Hacked (6/8/2011) : Motive and Attacker - unknown Harm - Names, account numbers, and contact information, including e-mail addresses, were accessed during the breach, which affected about 360,000 customers. Turkish government (6/9/2011) : Motive - Anonymous, in opposition to Internet filtering plan Harm - site inaccessible temporarily U.S. Senate hacked (6/13/2011) : Motive - LulzSec, saying it doesn't like the U.S. government Harm - published on the Web server's directory and file structure of the Senate site Spanish National Police (6/13/2011) : Motive - Anonymous, in retaliation for the arrest of three people in Spain Harm - site was inaccessible temporarily CIA Hacked (6/15/2011) : Attacker - Lulzsec Harm - site temporarily down Electronic Arts hack (6/16/2011) : Harm - System hosting BioWare Neverwinter Nights forum is breached and user names, encrypted passwords, e-mail addresses, mailing addresses, names, phone numbers, CD keys and birth dates may have been compromised. Some unencrypted passwords believed stolen. Sega Hack (6/18/2011) : some Sega Pass member e-mail addresses, dates of birth, and encrypted passwords compromised. NATO Hack (6/23/2011) : Motive - After NATO released a report singling out Anonymous' hacktivism as a cyber threat, the group warned NATO not to challenge it. Harm - subscribers to NATO's e-Bookshop service were urged to change their passwords after a possible compromise of usernames, passwords, addresses and e-mail addresses. Arizona Department of Public Safety (6/23/2011) : Motive - LulzSec said it is leaking the data to protest "racial profiling anti-immigrant" policies of Arizona law enforcement, specifically SB1070, which makes it a crime to be in Arizona without documentation proving United States residency. Releases another batch of data on June 29. Harm - publicly released hundreds of private intelligence bulletins, training manuals, personal e-mail correspondence, names, phone numbers, addresses and passwords belonging to Arizona law enforcement. Former British Prime Minister Tony Blair Hack (6/24/2011) : Motive - TeaMp0isoN says it targeted Blair over his support for the Iraq War Harm - contents of his electronic address book, including contact data for members of Parliament Arizona Department of Public Safety Hack (6/29/2011) : Attacker - Antisec Harm - hackers release second dump of data, including more personal data on specific officers Al-Qaeda Hack (6/29/2011) : Harm - hackers shut down al-Qaeda's Internet communications, halting the flow of videos and statements online Arizona Fraternal Order of Police, Fraternal Order of Police in Mesa, Tucson Hack (6/30/2011): Attacker - Antisec Harm - 8 Web sites defaced, documents released including passwords and e-mail addresses of 1,200 officers, some financial data of specific officers and personal e-mails Apple Hack (7/4/2011) : Attacker - Antisec Method - exploited security flaw in the software Apple used Harm - 26 admin usernames and passwords for an Apple server exposed Fox News Twitter account Hack (7/4/2011) : Harm - The Fox News Twitter feed was used to publish false reports that President Obama had been killed. German Federal Police Hack (German Federal Police) : Attacker - n0-N4m3 Cr3w Harm - The hackers compromised a server used by the country's customs service and posted location coordinates, license plate and telephone numbers, police usernames and passwords, and a GPS application in response to government communications interception. News Corp. sites, The Sun and News International Hack (7/18/2011) : Attacker - Lulzsec Harm - Hackers redirected The Sun home page to fake story about death of News Corp. owner Rupert Murdoch, and then later to LulzSec's Twitter feed, as well as redirected a News International's page with a statement on the hack to the LulzSec Twitter feed. They also released phone numbers of News Corp. employees and an e-mail address and password for former Sun editor Rebekah Brooks, who is embroiled in the mobile phone voice mail hacking scandal at News of the World. Italian Police's National Center for Computer Crime and the Protection of Critical Infrastructure (7/22/2011) : Attacker - Antisec Harm - Hackers claim to have stolen more than 8 GB of internal data that was allegedly seized during police investigations, including information on the Ministry of Transport in Egypt, Ministry of Defense in Australia, Russian companies and U.S. Justice Department. They threatened to publish it online. 72 public and private organizations in 14 countries Hack (8/2/2011) : Motive - McAfee report does not speculate, but there's a pattern in the targets which do not include China but do include political non-profits, a pro-democracy organization, the World Anti-doping Agency, and the International Olympic Committee and Olympic committees in three countries, which were targeted right before and after the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing. Method - targeted phishing attacks with e-mail exploit that installed a back door Harm - National secrets, classified government data, source code, bug databases, email archives, details for new oil and gas field auctions, legal contracts, SCADA configurations and more. Citigroup Japan hack (8/5/2011) : Method - A source said the scheme was perpetrated by a third-party vendor that had been given access to Citi's internal systems. Harm - Personal information of 92,408 Citigroup credit card customers in Japan was stolen and sold to third parties, the bank said. 70 U.S. law enforcement agencies and police association in Italy Hacked (8/6/2011): Attacker - Antisec Harm - 10GB of personal information, private e-mails, passwords, training files, data from informants, Social Security numbers and stolen credit card information Government of Syria (8/8/2011) : Attacker - Anonymous Harm - Home page of the Syrian Ministry of Defense site defaced with Anonymous logo and a call for the downfall of President Bashar al-Assad. BlackBerry maker Research In Motion (RIM) Defacement (8/9/2011) : Attacker - Team Poison Harm - RIM's BlackBerry blog was hacked in retaliation for RIM offering to assist London police in combating rioters, many of whom are using BlackBerrys to organize. Hong Kong stock exchange Hack (8/10/2011) : Harm - Hackers broke into news site of Hong Kong stock exchange, where corporate filings are published, forcing the suspension of trading for seven companies. NOTE : List not Finished here, You can check more latest Hacking News on The Hacker News. Source : The Hacker News Magazine - September Edition (Issue 04)" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d9ec6cefc42b00293838" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet Source Code Released Online - Download Now", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/07/stuxnet-source-code-released-online.html", "Date" : "2011-07-02T21:05:00-11:00", "Article" : "Stuxnet Source Code Released Online - Download Now Stuxnet is a Microsoft Windows computer worm discovered in July 2010 that targets industrial software and equipment. While it is not the first time that crackers have targeted industrial systems,it is the first discovered malware that spies on and subverts industrial systems,and the first to include a programmable logic controller (PLC) rootkit. Stuxnet is designed to programmatically alter Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs) used in those facilities. In an ICS environment, the PLCs automate industrial type tasks such as regulating flow rate to maintain pressure and temperature controls. Source Code Download Another Video Presentation on Stuxnet by Hungry Beast." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da096cefc42b00293847" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "U.S. federal lab linked to Stuxnet breached !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/04/us-federal-lab-linked-to-stuxnet.html", "Date" : "2011-04-22T08:49:00-11:00", "Article" : "A federally funded U.S. lab that is suspected to have been involved in finding the vulnerabilities in Siemens SCADA systems used by the Stuxnet worm has shut down the Internet connection for its employees following the discovery of a breach into the facility's systems. The Oak Ridge National Laboratory - located in Tennessee and funded by the U.S. Department of Energy - is known for performing classified and unclassified research for federal agencies and departments on issues crucial for national security. Among other things, the lab also does cybersecurity research on malware, vulnerabilities and phishing. It is somewhat ironic, then, that the breach was the result of two employees falling for a malicious email containing a link to a page that exploited a remote-code execution vulnerability in the Internet Explorer browser. According to Wired, the email was sent to about 530 lab employees, of which 57 believed that the email was coming from the institution's human resources department and clicked on the link. Of those 57 machines, only two got infected. It seems that the malware inserted in those two computers lay dormant for a week, and then started to send out stolen data from one of them to a remote server. This was discovered by the administrators who immediately shut down and cleaned up the machine, but a week later, they discovered that other servers were also infected - hence, the total shutdown of Internet access. Thomas Zacharia, the deputy director of the lab, didn't say what data had been stolen, but he confirmed it was encrypted. He hopes that the investigation will reveal the nature of the data and the destination of the stolen batch. He also commented that the malware used in the attack was designed to hide on the system and to delete itself if it was unsuccessful on a particular system. According to a New York Times article, the Oak Ridge National Laboratory was used to test and reveal the vulnerabilities that allowed the Stuxnet worm to target the Natanz nuclear plant. This claim being now in the open, it is easy to see how speculations about the origin of the attack that hit the lab's network are inevitably going to lean towards Iran." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da0d6cefc42b00293849" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Cyber jihadists could use Stuxnet worm to attack the west !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/04/cyber-jihadists-could-use-stuxnet-worm.html", "Date" : "2011-04-22T00:04:00-11:00", "Article" : "Cyber jihadists could use Stuxnet worm to attack the west ! ACCORDING TO Mikko Hypponen, F-Secureu2019s chief security researcher, there has been a revolution in malware with Stuxnet. u201cThe worst case scenario is that Al-Qaeda or another organisation could gain access to this type of knowledge and information, and make use of it to launch attacks on critical infrastructure u2013 like blow up nuclear power plants or do something to our food chain.u201d" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da156cefc42b0029384c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Siemens Assisted with Stuxnet's Development, claimed by Iran !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/04/siemens-assisted-with-stuxnets.html", "Date" : "2011-04-19T22:22:00-11:00", "Article" : "Siemens Assisted with Stuxnet's Development, claimed by Iran !A senior Iranian official accuses Siemens of willingly assisting the Stuxnet creators by providing the source code necessary for them to exploit its software. Iran's state news agency, the Islamic Republic News Service (IRNA), quotes Brigadier General Gholam Reza Jalali as saying the German engineering giant played a part in the development of the world's most sophisticated malware. "Siemens should explain why and how it provided the enemies with the information about the codes of the SCADA software and prepared the ground for a cyber attack against us," Jalali told IRNA. "It was a hostile action which could have inflicted serious damage on the country if it had not been dealt with in a timely manner," he added. Jalali's remark might be a result of a The New York Times report that pointed at Israel and the US as likely Stuxnet creators and mentioned that Siemens worked in 2008 with the US Idaho National Laboratory (INL) to identify vulnerabilities in the company's SCADA software. "The Foreign Ministry and other relevant political and judicial organizations should lodge complaints at international courts. The attacking countries should be held legally responsible for the cyberattack," the Iranian official stressed. Jalali, who heads Iran's Passive Defense Organisation, a military unit responsible for defending the country's nuclear facilities, reiterated that the malware was stopped in time before doing any considerable damage. He did, however, acknowledge that had it succeeded, the attack could have resulted in tragic accidents at industrial sites and refineries across the country. This conflicts with an earlier report from the Institute for Science and International Security (ISIS), which claims that up to 1,000 IR-1 uranium enrichment centrifuges were damaged by the malware. Retiring Mossad chief Meir Dagan also said that technical difficulties experienced by Iran delayed the creation of a bomb until 2015. Source" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da2c6cefc42b00293858" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet Worm Revealed u2013 Installation, Injection and Mitigation !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/03/stuxnet-worm-revealed-installation.html", "Date" : "2011-03-20T05:52:00-11:00", "Article" : "In the videos below, Joel Langill deconstructs each part of the worm to show it in action. In the second video youu2019ll see the best practices that InfoSec Institute uses (we have a training course dedicated to SCADA control systems which includes a robust Stuxnet lab) to mitigate this type of infection and security breach. Part 1: Introduction, Installation, and Injection Part 2: Mitigation & Prevention The Stuxnet worm has generated a lot of media attention and coverage for some of itu2019s features as well as targets. The complexity not normal for malware that weu2019ve witnessed, and consists of attacks against three different systems: Windows Infection Step7 Infection PLC Infection If youu2019d like to know more about Stuxnet & SCADA security, attend our SCADA Security Boot Camp. Leave a comment below if you have a specific instruction or ideas of what youu2019d like to learn in any follow-up or explanations of this video. News Source : Infosecinstitute.com" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da366cefc42b0029385d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "40th anniversary of the computer virus !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/03/40th-anniversary-of-computer-virus.html", "Date" : "2011-03-14T06:56:00-11:00", "Article" : "This year marks the 40th anniversary of Creeper, the worldu2019s first computer virus. From Creeper to Stuxnet, the last four decades saw the number of malware instances boom from 1,300 in 1990, to 50,000 in 2000, to over 200 million in 2010. Besides sheer quantity, viruses, which were originally used as academic proof of concepts, quickly turned into geek pranks, then evolved into cybercriminal tools. By 2005, the virus scene had been monetized, and virtually all viruses were developed with the sole purpose of making money via more or less complex business models. In the following story, FortiGuard Labs looks at the most significant computer viruses over the last 40 years and explains their historical significance. 1971: Creeper: catch me if you can While theories on self-replicating automatas were developed by genius mathematician Von Neumann in the early 50s, the first real computer virus was released u201cin labu201d in 1971 by an employee of a company working on building ARPANET, the Internetu2019s ancestor. Intriguing feature: Creeper looks for a machine on the network, transfers to it, displays the message u201cIu2019m the creeper, catch me if you can!u201d and starts over, thereby hoping from system to system. It was a pure proof of concept that ties the roots of computer viruses to those of the Internet. 1982: Elk Cloner Written by a 15-year old as a way to booby trap his friendsu2019 Apple II computer systems without physical access to them, Elk Cloner spread via floppy disks. Infected machines displayed a harmless poem, dedicated to the virusu2019 glory. Intriguing feature: Elk Cloner was the first virus ever to spread outside of the lab it was created in. Its global impact was negligible and its intent plainly geeky. 1987: Jerusalem First detected in the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, the aptly-named Jerusalem is somewhat deleterious. Each year on Friday the 13th, this virus deleted every single program thatu2019s run on the infected system. Intriguing feature: Jerusalem is the first example of a destructive virus to have a global impact. Of course, the sheer number of computers back then was infinitesimal, compared to today. 1992: Michelangelo: The sleeper must awaken The dormant Michelangelo virus was designed to awaken on March 6th (Michelangelou2019s birthday u2013 as in the Renaissance artist, not the Ninja Turtle) and erase critical parts of infected computersu2019 hard drives. Intriguing feature: The promises of destruction it carried spawned a media frenzy. In the weeks preceding March 6th, media relayed (and some may say amplified) expertsu2019 predictions forecasting 5 million computers going definitively down. Yet, on March 6th, only a few thousand data losses were reported u2013 and public trust in AV companiesu2019 ethics was tainted for a while. 1999: Melissa Melissa propagated via infected Microsoft Word documents and mailed itself to Outlook contacts of the contaminated user. It was virulent enough to paralyze some important mailing systems on the Internet. Its author created the bug to honor Melissa, a stripper heu2019d met in Florida. Whether he conquered her heart this way is somewhat unlikely, but one thing is sure: the malicious code earned him 20 months in jail and a $5,000 fine. Intriguing feature: Someone created a variant of Melissa that encrypted the infected files and demanded a ransom of $100 to be wired to an offshore account for decryption. The author was traced to the said account. While it remained an isolated case, it is worth noting that 6 years before the malware scene became fully monetized, someone had already started figuring out how to make bucks out of viruses. 2000: I LOVE YOU At the dawn of the XXIst century, I LOVE YOU worm infected tens of millions of computers. As a fairly simple worm, I LOVE YOU presented itself as an incoming email with u201cI love youu201d in its subject line and infected the machine of users who opened the attachment. It then mailed itself to all of the contacts found on the infected useru2019s system. Intriguing feature: While the authoru2019s motivation clearly wasnu2019t about money, the damages were: When the dust settled, I LOVE YOU had cost companies around the world between $5 and $10 billion. Much of that cost can be attributed to the time spent u201ccleaningu201d infected machines. 2001: Code Red While I LOVE YOU targeted end users, Code Red infected Web servers, where it automatically spread by exploiting a vulnerability in Microsoft IIS servers. In less than one week, nearly 400,000 servers were infected, and the homepage of their hosted Websites was replaced with u201cHacked By Chinese!u201d Intriguing feature: Code Red had a distinguishing feature designed to flood the White House Website with traffic (from the infected servers), probably making it the first case of documented u2018hacktivismu2019 on a large scale. 2004: Sasser Like Code Red, Sasser spread without anyoneu2019s help; but this time, the virus exploited a vulnerability in Microsoft Windows to propagate, which made it particularly virulent. Whatu2019s more, due to a bug in the wormu2019s code, infected systems turned off every couple of minutes. Intriguing feature: For the first time, systems whose function isnu2019t normally related to the Internet (and that mostly existed before the Internet) were severely impacted. More than one million systems were infected, AFPu2019s communications satellites were interrupted for hours, Delta Airlines was forced to cancel flights, the British coast guard had to go back to print maps, and a hospital had to redirect its emergency room because its radiology department was completely paralyzed by the virus. The damage amount was estimated to be more than $18 billion. Microsoft placed a $250,000 bounty on the authoru2019s head, who turned out to be an 18-year old German student. When caught, the student admitted that he created the malicious code as a creative way to help his mother to find a job in the computer security industry. 2005: MyTob, the turning point MyTob appeared in 2005 and was one of first worms to combine the features of a Bot (the infamous u201cZombies,u201d controlled by a remote Botmaster) and a mass-mailer. Intriguing feature: MyTob marks the entry in the era of Botnets and of cybercrime. Business models designed to u201cmonetizeu201d the many botnets appeared (some of which will count more than 20 million machines): installation of spyware, diffusion of spam, illegal content hosting, interception of banking credentials, blackmail, etc. The revenue generated from these new botnets quickly reached several billion dollars per year; a figure that is growing today. 2007: Storm botnet By 2007, cybercriminals already had lucrative business models in place. Theyu2019re thinking about protecting their money spinners (infected computers). Before 2007, botnets showed a cruel lack of robustness: in neutralizing its unique Control Center, a botnet could be completely neutralized, because Zombies didnu2019t have anyone to report to (and take commands from) anymore. Intriguing feature: By implementing a peer-to-peer architecture, Storm became the first Botnet with decentralized commandu2026 It is much more robust. At the peak of the epidemic, Storm had infected between 1 and 50 million systems and accounted for 8% of all malware running in the world. 2008: Koobface Koobface (an anagram for Facebook) spreads by pretending to be the infected user on social networks, prompting friends to download an update to their Flash player in order to view a video. The update is a copy of the virus. Intriguing feature: Koobface is the first botnet to recruit its Zombie computers across multiple social networks (Facebook, MySpace, hi5, Bebo, Friendster, etc). Today, it is estimated that at any time, over 500,000 Koobface zombies are online at the same time. 2009: Conficker Conficker is a particularly sophisticated virus, as itu2019s both a worm, much like Sasser, and an ultra-resilient botnet, which implements bleeding-edge defensive techniques. Curiously, it seems that its propagation algorithm is poorly calibrated, causing it to be discovered more frequently. Some networks were so saturated by Conficker, that it caused planes to be grounded, including a number of French Fighter planes. In addition, hospitals and military bases were impacted. In total approximately 7 million systems were infected worldwide. Intriguing feature: Conficker did not infect Ukrainian IPs, nor machines configured with a Ukrainian keyboard. This suggests the authors were playing by the cybercriminal gold rule, which implicitly states, u201cDonu2019t target anything in your own country, and the arm of justice wonu2019t be long enough to reach you.u201d 2010: Stuxnet, welcome to the cyber war According to most threat researchers today, only governments have the necessary resources to design and implement a virus of such complexity. To spread, Stuxnet exploited several critical vulnerabilities in Windows, which, until then, were unknown, including one guaranteeing its execution when inserting an infected USB key into the target system, even if a systems autorun capabilities were disabled. From the infected system, Stuxnet was then able to spread into an internal network, until it reached its target: a management system of an industrial process edited by Siemens. In this particular instance, Stuxnet knew the weak point with a specific controller u2013 perhaps a cooling system u2013 and most likely intended to destroy or neutralize the industrial system. Intriguing feature: For the first time, the target of a virus is the destruction of an industrial system (very probably a nuclear power plant in Iran). Whatu2019s next? According to the trends weu2019re seeing, the next target for cybercriminals could be smart phones. Their widespread use and the fact that they incorporate a payment system (premium rate phone numbers) make them easy money-generating targets. Furthermore, they have a localization system, a microphone, embedded GPS and one (or several) cameras, which potentially allow a particularly invasive spying of their owners. News Source : net-security.org" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da506cefc42b00293869" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Exposed : HBGary wanted to suppress Stuxnet research !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/02/exposed-hbgary-wanted-to-suppress.html", "Date" : "2011-02-13T06:04:00-11:00", "Article" : "It is no secret that in recent days, Anonymous Operatives have released a cache of HBGary Federal internal emails to the public. Crowdleaks has discovered that within these communications, Aaron Barr received a copy of Stuxnet (a computer worm that targets the types of industrial control systems (ICS) that are commonly used in infrastructure supporting facilities) from McAfee on July 28, 2010. In an effort to confirm this was in fact Stuxnet, Crowdleaks has decompiled some of the source code, which can be found. Throughout the following emails it is revealed that HBGary Federal may have been planning to useStuxnet for their own purposes.In a message sent to all email account holders at HBGary.com, Charles Copeland (Lead Support Engineer at HBGary, Inc.) writes:from: Charles Copeland to: all@hbgary.com date: Sat, Sep 25, 2010 at 9:54 PM subject: Stuxnet Worm Mailing List Filter messages from this mailing list. mailed-byhbgary.com hide details 9/25/10 Computerworld u2013 Officials in Iran have confirmed that the Stuxnet worm infected at least 30,000 Windows PCs in the country, multiple Iranian news services reported on Saturday.http://www.computerworld.com/s/article/9188018/Iran_confirms_massive_Stuxnet_infection_of_industrial_systemsIu2019ve already got a email asking about stuxnet, this came out late Friday. Does anyone have a dropper I have been unable to find it.In another email sent directly to Aaron Barr, David D. Merritt writes:from: David D. Merritt to: Aaron Barr date: Sun, Oct 3, 2010 at 9:35 PM subject: Re: Hunter Killer Insanity 285mailed-bygmail.com hide details 10/3/10 contacts over at TSA say that everybody has a copyu2026combine that with US CERTs vulnerability status and their own systems not meeting the specu2026. iu2019m seeing TSA becoming a malware testbedu2026Aaron Barr responds:On Oct 3, 2010, at 10:13 PM, Aaron Barr wrote: > Dave, > > We havenu2019t but I would be interested to talk to you some about the tie. I do have a decent amount of information on Stuxnet and would be interested to hear about the tie. Some of what I know about Stuxnet might be of interest. I think it would be best to discuss in a more closed space though. > > In doing a little research: > http://diocyde.wordpress.com/2010/03/12/ringy-ringy-beacon-callbacks-why-dont-you-just-tell-them-their-pwned/ > > While this guy can be a bit of a crackpot at times his post has more validity than fiction. Greg and I have brainstormed a bit in the past on how to conduct such an attack that would be very difficult to detect. Autonomous, single purpose malware with no C&C. As we have said the battle is on the edges either source of destination, everything else is or will become somewhat irrelevant or diminished in value. > > Aaron Barr > CEO > HBGary Federal, LLC > 719.510.8478In another message sent to all email account holders at HBGary.com by Greg Hoglund, itu2019s made clear that HBGary wanted to hide their work onStuxnet.from: Greg Hoglund to: all@hbgary.com date: Sun, Sep 26, 2010 at 10:26 PM subject: stuxnet mailing list Filter messages from this mailing listmailed-byhbgary.com hide details 9/26/10 All, HBGary has no official position on Stuxnet. Please do not comment to the press on Stuxnet. We know nothing about Stuxnet. -Greg Hoglund CEO, HBGary, Inc.In the most chilling strand of emails, we find that whatever HBGary was working on, it was in conjunction with the NSA.Aaron Barr writes:Hi Cheryl, 719.510.8478 Aaron Sent from my iPadAaron Barr writes:> From: Aaron Barr > To: Peace, Cheryl D > Sent: Mon Aug 09 13:54:23 2010 > Subject: Re: Number > > Hi Cheryl, > > It does. I havenu2019t met him personally. Our sister company does work > in a few different pockets on the bldg. And i am on the extended NANA > team. I recently joined to stand up HBGary federal, a related but > separate company. We manage all the work that requires clearances. > We exchange some technologies, but we have some separate developments > as well. Mostly around threat intelligence and CNO/social media. > > I think there are some enabling tech to your mission but really need > that qualified. > > Interested to run some of the stuxnet stuff by u as well. > > Aaron > > > Sent from my iPhoneCheryl Peace writes:On Aug 9, 2010, at 9:27 AM, u201cPeace, Cheryl Du201d wrote: > >> Aaron >> Did a little checking and we already do busy with you guys. Does the name >> Tony Seager ring a bell?Aaron Barr writes:>> u2014u2013Original Messageu2014u2013 >> From: Aaron Barr [mailto:aaron@hbgary.com] >> Sent: Friday, August 06, 2010 10:56 AM >> To: Peace, Cheryl D >> Subject: Re: Number >> >> OK. If interested do you have some time to get together when you get back? >> either next Friday or early the following week? >> AaronCheryl Peace writes:>> On Aug 6, 2010, at 10:44 AM, Peace, Cheryl D wrote: >> >>> I am in Europe till mid next weekAaron Barr writes:>>> u2014u2013Original Messageu2014u2013 >>> From: Aaron Barr [mailto:aaron@hbgary.com] >>> Sent: Thursday, August 05, 2010 10:57 PM >>> To: Peace, Cheryl D >>> Subject: Re: Number >>> >>> Hi Cheryl, >>> >>> Can I schedule an appointment with you to come by and chat for a few >>> minutes? >>> >>> AaronCheryl Peace writes:>>> On Jul 30, 2010, at 10:41 PM, Peace, Cheryl D wrote: >>> >>>> I am at Rao at the bar if you want to come by for a few. Meeting friends >>> for a cocktail in a few >>>> u2014u2014u2014u2014u2014u2014u2014u2014u2013 >>>> Sent using BlackBerryArron Barr writes:>>>> u2014u2013 Original Message u2014u2013 >>>> From: Aaron Barr >>>> To: Peace, Cheryl D >>>> Sent: Fri Jul 30 20:02:44 2010 >>>> Subject: Number >>>> >>>> Cheryl, >>>> >>>> Sorry to bother you but do you have a minute to talk. I donu2019t have >>>> your number handy. It will only take moment, but I have some >>>> information for you. >>>> >>>> Aaron Barr >>>> CEO >>>> HBGary Federal >>>> 7195108478In a related internal email sent to Rich Cummings (CTO of HBGary, Inc.)Greg Hoglund writes:from: Greg Hoglund to: Rich Cummings date: Mon, Nov 16, 2009 at 9:30 PM subject: Govt dropper in this word DOC, zipped up for youmailed-byhbgary.com hide details 11/16/09Phil, Rich,I got this word doc linked off a dangler site for Al Qaeda peeps. I think it has a US govvy payload buried inside. Would be neat to REcon it and see what itu2019s about. DONT open it unless in a VM obviously. password is meatflower. Remove the .txt extension too. DONT let it FONE HOME unless you want black suits landing on your front acre. :-)-Greg Crowdleaks.org had a software engineer (whose name has been withheld) look at the Stuxnet binaries inside of a debugger and offer some insight on the worm. She informed us that most of the wormsu2019 sources were using code similar to what is already publically available. She noted that the only remarkable thing about it was the 4 windows 0 days and the stolen certificates.She says:u201cA hacker did not write this, it appears to be something that would be produced by a team using a process, all of the components were created using code similar to what is already publically available. That is to say itu2019s u2018unremarkableu2019. This was created by a software development team and while the coders were professional level I am really not impressed with the end product, it looks like a picture a child painted with finger paints.u201dWhen asked what type of organization likely wrote it, she stated:u201cProbably a corporation by request of a government, it was clearly tested and put together by prou2019s. It really looks like outsourced work.u201d" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da546cefc42b0029386a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet Hit 5 Gateway Targets on Its Way to Iranian Plant !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/02/stuxnet-hit-5-gateway-targets-on-its.html", "Date" : "2011-02-11T19:36:00-11:00", "Article" : "Attackers behind the Stuxnet computer worm focused on targeting five organizations in Iran that they believed would get them to their final target in that country, according to a new report from security researchers. The five organizations, believed to be the first that were infected with the worm, were targeted in five separate attacks over a number of months in 2009 and 2010, before Stuxnet was discovered in June 2010 and publicly exposed. Stuxnet spread from these organizations into other organizations on its way to its final target, which is believed to have been a nuclear enrichment facility or facilities in Iran.u201cThese five organizations were infected, and from those five computers Stuxnet spread out u2014 not to just computers in those organizations, but to other computes as well,u201d says Liam O Murchu, manager of operations for Symantec Security Response. u201cIt all started with those five original domains.u201dThe new information comes in an updated report from researchers at Symantec , a computer security firm that has provided some of the leading analysis of the worm since it was discovered.According to the report, Stuxnetu2019s first attack against the five organizations occurred in June 2009, followed by a second attack in July 2009. Eight months passed before subsequent attacks were launched in March, April and May 2010. The last attack was just one month before the code was discovered in June 2010 by VirusBlokAda, a security firm in Belarus, which said it had found the malware on computers of unspecified clients in Iran.Symantec didnu2019t identify the names of the five organizations that were targeted; the company said only that all five u201chave a presence in Iranu201d and are involved in industrial processes. One of the organizations (what Symantec refers to as Domain B) was targeted with the worm in three of the five attacks. Of the remaining organizations, three of them were hit once, and the last organization was targeted twice.Symantec has so far been able to count a constellation of 12,000 infections in the five organizations and outside organizations to which the malware spread. The most successful attack occurred in March 2010 when 69 percent of these infections occurred. The March attack targeted only Domain B, then spread.Domain A was targeted twice (Jun 2009 and Apr 2010). The same computer appears to have been infected each time.Domain B was targeted three times (Jun 2009, Mar 2010, and May 2010).Domain C was targeted once (Jul 2009).Domain D was targeted once (Jul 2009).Domain E appears to have been targeted once (May 2010), but had three initial infections. (I.e., the same initially infected USB key was inserted into three different computers.)O Murchu acknowledges that there could have been earlier attacks that occurred before June 2009, but no one has found evidence of this yet.Symantec found that the shortest time between when the malware was compiled in one case u2014 that is turned from source code into a working piece of software u2014 and the subsequent attack using the code occurred, was just 12 hours. This occurred in the June 2009 attack.u201cThis tells us that the attackers more than likely knew who they wanted to infect before they completed the code,u201d O Murchu says. u201cThey knew in advance who they wanted to target and how they were going to get it there.u201dStuxnet was not designed to spread via the internet but via an infected USB stick or some other targeted method within a local network. So the short timeframe between compilation and the launch of the June 2009 attack also suggests that the attackers had immediate access to the computer they attacked u2014 either working with an insider or using an unwitting insider to introduce the infection.u201cIt could be they sent it to someone who put it on a USB key, or it could have been delivered via spear-phishing,u201d O Murchu says. u201cWhat we do see is that the exploits in Stuxnet are all land-based, so it is not going to spread wildly on the internet. From that, we can assume the attackers wanted to deliver Stuxnet to an organization that was very close to whatever the final destination for Stuxnet was.u201dSymantec, working with other security firms, has so far been able to collect and examine 3,280 unique samples of the code. Stuxnet has infected more than 100,000 computers in Iran, Europe and the United States, but itu2019s designed to only deliver its malicious payload when it finds itself on the final system or systems itu2019s targeting.On systems that are not targeted, the worm just sits and finds ways to spread to other computers in search of its target. To date, three variants of Stuxnet have been found (dating to June 2009, March 2010 and April 2010). Symantec believes a fourth variant likely exists, but researchers have not found it yet.One of the organizations, Domain B, was targeted each time the attackers released a new version of Stuxnet.u201cSo it looks like they felt that if they got in there, Stuxnet would spread to the [system] they actually wanted to attack,u201d O Murchu says.After the worm was discovered in June 2010, Symantec researchers worked on reverse-engineering the code to determine what it was designed to do. Two months later, the company stunned the security community when it revealed that Stuxnet was designed to attack Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs), something that until then was considered a theoretical attack but had never been proven done. PLCs are components that work with SCADA systems (supervisory control and data acquisition systems) that control critical infrastructure systems and manufacturing facilities.Shortly after Symantec released this information last August, German researcher Ralph Langner disclosed that Stuxnet was not attacking just any PLC, it was targeted to sabotage a specific facility or facilities. Speculation focused on Iranu2019s nuclear enrichment plant at Natanz as the likely target. Iran has acknowledged that malicious software struck computers at Natanz and affected centrifuges at the plant, but has not provided any details beyond this." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da566cefc42b0029386b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Launching AnonLeaks, Ready To Dump More HBGary E-mails !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/02/launching-anonleaks-ready-to-dump-more.html", "Date" : "2011-02-11T06:39:00-11:00", "Article" : "Anonymous used to be all about disrupting the Web sites of companies that helped block WikiLeaksu2019 funding. Now itu2019s starting to act like WikiLeaks itself. The group is planning, as early as today, to release 27,000 e-mails from the server of Greg Hoglund, the chief executive of software security firm HPGary, which it says could have permanently damaging consequences for the company. Anonymous has already posted around 50,000 emails of Aaron Barr, the CEO of sister organisation HPGary Federal, which revealed a report by the firm looking at ways to sabotage WikiLeaks in collaboration with Palantir Technologies and Berico Technologies. The emails also show that Bank of America, a potential target of WikiLeaks, was to hear the proposal via its outside law firm Hunton & Williams. A source from Anonymous says that most of the new e-mails from Hoglund are still unchecked and it is unclear who will be most liable when the information is made public, but added that briefly skimming the emails had revealed u201cthree different malware archives, two bots, an offer to sell a botnet, a genuine stuxnet copy, and various malware lists.u201d Not entirely surprising given that HBGary is a security firm, but the source speculates that botnets arenu2019t typically rented out for u201cresearch.u201d u201cJudging by the fact that theyu2019d attack WikiLeaksu2019 operations, [we] wouldnu2019t be surprised if theyu2019re up to something fishy,u201d the source added. u201cWeu2019ll let Anon and other public devour the emails.u201d A subset of Anonymous members, or Anons, who use Internet Chat Relay to communicate, are currently working on a web viewer for all the e-mails as part of the launch of a new front for the movement, AnonLeaks. ThinkProgress also discovered via Barru2019s leaked emails that similar proposals had been prepared for the Chamber of Commerce to attack progressive groups and other activists including ThinkProgress itself. Via Reddit, hereu2019s a screenshot of how Anonymous hackers managed to get access to Hoglundu2019s email, by asking one of the IT administrators to reset his password. The revelations about HBGary and WikiLeaks came about by accident, after supporters of Anonymous hacked into Barru2019s web site and servers in retaliation for telling the Financial Times that he had managed penetrate the group and learn the identities of senior figures. It later transpired that some of Barru2019s initial research was incorrect, and Anonymous posted a link to one of his documents purporting to show names and addresses of active supporters to prove its point. Palantir Technologies has meanwhile sought to distance itself from HBGary, and publicly apologised for its role in the WikiLeaks response plan, making it all the more likely that Barru2019s e-mails are genuine." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da686cefc42b00293874" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "DHS Investing $40 Million for Cybersecurity Research !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/02/dhs-investing-40-million-for.html", "Date" : "2011-02-01T18:15:00-11:00", "Article" : "Insider threats, botnets and malware, and assay to abutment the Comprehensive Civic Cyber Initiative (CNCI) are amid areas of cybersecurity advance the Department of Homeland Aegis (DHS) will accomplish in budgetary year 2011. The DHS Science and Technology Homeland Aegis Advanced Assay Projects Bureau (HSARPA) is gluttonous proposals on 14 areas of cybersecurity assay it affairs to focus on this year, bristles of which will accord to the CNCI, a alternation of efforts to accommodate front-line aegis adjoin cybersecurity threats, according to a Broad Bureau Announcement acquaint on FedBizOpps.gov. The absolute amount of the accretion is $40 million. The DHS has been advance in cybersecurity for a brace of years through HSARPA, and this year shows the bureau absorption on both acceptable methods of aegis such ascomputer application assurance, enterprise-level aegis metrics, and arrangement resiliency, as able-bodied as added forward-thinking areas of assay such as authoritative aegis added convenient to artisan abundance and arrangement mapping and measurement. Topics additionally accommodate areas that became analytical aegis apropos for the government aftermost year, such as cabal threats -- accent by the Wikileaks aspersion -- and creating clay and assay capabilities to adumbrate the furnishings of cyberattacks such as botnets and malware on federal government and added analytical infrastructure, absorption in which agitated afterwards the assay of aftermost year's Stuxnet worm. The technology areas HSARPA will focus on to abutment CNCI additionally represent an absorption in responding to added abreast aegis threats to ensure aegis actuality developed can accommodated approaching threats. "The eyes of the CNCI assay association over the abutting 10 years is to 'transform the cyber-infrastructure to be aggressive to advance so that analytical civic interests are adequate from adverse accident and our association can confidently accept fresh abstruse advances,'" HSARPA said in its RFP. "The alone abiding band-aid to the vulnerabilities of today's networking and advice technologies is to ensure that approaching ancestors of these technologies are advised with aegis congenital in from the arena up." Topics of absorption the bureau will advance in to abutment this ambition accommodate cyber economics, the banking allurement for hackers to accomplish cyberattacks; agenda provenance, which focuses on the adventure of abstracts from agent to consumer; and hardware-enabled trust, which aims to accommodate added aegis in accretion accouterments than exists today. Other abreast and approaching aegis technologies HSARPA seeks ascribe on accommodate moving-target defense, which goes above aegis for changeless technology; nature-inspired cyber health, which encourages systems to be acquainted of and acknowledge to threats inherently; and acomputer application affirmation exchange to actualize fresh methods, services, and capabilities in build, test, and assay phases ofcomputer application development." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da766cefc42b0029387b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Israel Tested For The Virus Linked To Iran's Nuclear Boredom !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/01/israel-tested-for-virus-linked-to-irans.html", "Date" : "2011-01-19T19:30:00-11:00", "Article" : "The intelligence services of Israel and the United States collaborated in the development of a computer virus that have sabotaged nuclear centrifuges to Iran and a slowdown in its ability to develop a nuclear weapon, the New York Times reported Sunday. The newspaper reported that Israel has tested the effectiveness of worm Stuxnet its nuclear complex at Dimona in the Negev desert, before releasing him. The report quoted intelligence and military experts and officials say that the effort to create the worm Stuxnet was a joint US-Israeli project, which also had the cooperation of Britain and Germany. "You can control the worms, you need to know the machines," American expert told the Times. "The reason for the worm to be effective, that the Israelis have tried," he added. These days, the Times said the outgoing head of the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad, Meir Dagan, and Secretary of State, Hillary Rodham Clinton announced separately that they believed Iran's efforts had been postponed several years. Stuxnet, first identified by Iranian officials in June, is malware designed to infect computers using German Siemens Industrial Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) - A control system for industries that handle supplies water, oil rigs and power plants. Israel has used the same Iranian centrifuges to test the virus that has caused setbacks in Tehran's nuclear program, the newspaper said. "Israel has flown virtually identical nuclear centrifuges to Iran's Natanz, where Iranian scientists are struggling to enriching uranium," the Times said, citing experts. "Dimona tested the effectiveness of worm Stuxnet a destructive program that seems to have eradicated nearly a fifth of nuclear centrifuges to Iran and has contributed to the delay, but not destroyed, the ability to Tehran to make its first nuclear weapon "the report said." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da786cefc42b0029387c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Malware and phishing increasing via social networks !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/01/malware-and-phishing-increasing-via.html", "Date" : "2011-01-19T19:02:00-11:00", "Article" : "By mid-2010, Facebook recorded half a billion active users, making it not only the largest social networking site, but also one of the most popular destinations on the web. Unsurprisingly, this massive and committed user base is heavily targeted by scammers and cybercriminals, with the number and diversity of attacks growing steadily throughout 2010 u2013 malware, phishing and spam on social networks have all continued to rise in the past year, with a Sophos survey finding that: 40% of social networking users quizzed have been sent malware such as worms via social networking sites, a 90% increase since the summer of 2009 Two thirds (67%) say they have been spammed via social networking sites, more than double the proportion less than two years ago 43% have been on the receiving end of phishing attacks, more than double the figure since 2009. u201cRogue applications, clickjacking, survey scams u2013 all unheard of just a couple of years ago, are now popping up on a daily basis on social networks such as Facebook,u201d said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos. u201cWhy aren't Faceboook and other social networks doing more to prevent spam and scams in the first place? People need to be very careful they donu2019t end up being conned for their personal details, or get tricked into clicking on links that could earn money for cybercriminals or infect innocent computers.u201d Although results vary across the individual networks of Facebook, Twitter, MySpace and LinkedIn, the latest poll suggests that half of those surveyed have been given unrestricted access to social networks at work. Paradoxically, 59% believe employee behavior on social networking sites could endanger corporate network security, and 57% worry that colleagues are sharing too much information on social networks. "Total bans on users accessing social networking sites are becoming rarer, as more firms recognise the value such sites can bring in raising brand awareness and delivering social media marketing campaigns," explained Cluley. "If your business isn't on Facebook, but your competitors are, you are going to be at a disadvantage. But you have to be aware of the risks and secure your users while they're online." Although 82% of the surveyu2019s respondents felt that Facebook posed the biggest risk to security, Sophos has labeled an attack on the Twitter micro-blogging network as the biggest single social networking security incident of 2010. The infamous u2018onMouseOveru2019 Twitter worm hit the Twitter site in September 2010, and spread like wildfire. The cross-site-scripting (XSS) attack demonstrated how quickly a vulnerability on a social network can affect a huge number of users. High-profile victims included ex-Prime Minister's wife Sarah Brown, Lord Alan Sugar, and even Robert Gibbs, the press secretary to US President Barack Obama. Undoubtedly the most high profile IT security story of 2010 was the WikiLeaks saga, which saw a number of DDoS attacks launched against companies withdrawing support for the controversial whistleblowing site. There was also the widely reported u2018Stuxnetu2019 worm, linked with targeting SCADA systems used for industrial applications, including nuclear facilities. These exemplify the development of cybercrime from the initial stages of proof-of-concept and mischievous virus-writing, through financially motivated, organized criminal activity u2013 undoubtedly still the primary threat u2013 and finally a third, political motivation u2013 a trend predicted to continue. News Source : Google" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da886cefc42b00293883" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "PandaLabs Releases : Annual Report 2010 (Must Read) !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/01/pandalabs-releases-annual-report-2010.html", "Date" : "2011-01-08T14:29:00-11:00", "Article" : "In 2010, cyber-criminals have created and distributed a third of all existing viruses. That is, in just 12 months, they have created 34 percent of all malware that has ever existed and has been classified by the company. Furthermore, the Collective Intelligence system, which automatically detects, analyzes and classifies 99.4 percent of all malware received, currently stores 134 million unique files, out of which 60 million are malware (viruses, worms, Trojans and other computer threats). Topics covered:Threats in 2010 Stuxnet, Iran and nuclear plants Cyber war Aurora Cyber-crime Cyber-protests Mariposa Social networks Rogueware 2010 in figures More BlackHat SEO Windows 7 vs Mac OS X Snow Leopard Cell phone security Spam in 2010 Vulnerabilities in 2010 Trends in 2011 Conclusion Trojans still dominate the ranking of new malware that has appeared in 2010 (56 percent of all samples), followed by viruses and worms. It is interesting to note that 11.6 percent of all the malware gathered in the Collective Intelligence database is rogueware or fake antivirus software, a malware category that despite appearing only four years ago is creating much havoc among users.Click here to read full report News Source : Pandasecurity's Press" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da8e6cefc42b00293886" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "One-third of malware was created in 2010 !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/01/one-third-of-malware-was-created-in.html", "Date" : "2011-01-06T13:58:00-11:00", "Article" : "One-third of existing malware was created in 2010, a report has revealed. Anti-malware laboratory PandaLabs discovered the findings in its 2010 Annual Security Report which detailed a year of huge cyber-crime activity. It revealed that around 34 per cent of the 60 million existing viruses that have ever been created or distributed were produced by cyber-criminals last year. Additionally, around 40 per cent of the relatively new threat of fake antivirus software, more commonly known as rogueware, was created last year. Last year also saw an explosion in cyber-war and cyber-activism including examples such as the Stuxnet virus as well as the WikiLeaks scandal and the 'hacktivism' that followed. However, PandaLabs revealed some positive data security news, the speed at which new threats are growing fell in 2010 to 50 per cent, compared to the 100 per cent growth seen every year since 2003. An expert at SearchSecurity.com revealed that the most prevelant and dangerous data security threat of 2010 was the ZeuS Trojan botnet. Kroll Ontrack is the worldu2019s leader in data recovery and data management services, working to keep your data safe and always available. News Submitted By : Om Rathore" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35da926cefc42b00293888" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Report : Attacks on social media to rise in 2011 !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2011/01/report-attacks-on-social-media-to-rise.html", "Date" : "2011-01-05T14:14:00-11:00", "Article" : "ESET, a security solution provider for viruses and malicious software, has released its cyber-threat report for 2011, predicting that attacks on Facebook and other social networks will increase over the coming year. The report prepared by specialists and searchers in the business also says the mentioned attacks' main purpose will be to steal data, also known as 'phishing' Attacks on Facebook and other social networks are likely to increase over the coming year, according to a report from ESET, an IT security company, on possible threat trends for 2011.Social media will be a focus for social engineering attacks such as those already commonly experienced by users of Facebook and Google, according to ESETu2019s new San Diego-based Cyber Threat Analysis Center, or CTAC.Furthermore, it is likely there will be an increasing volume of attacks on other social networking sites such as LinkedIn, Orkut and Twitter, as well as other search engines such as Bing and Yahoo, the research team said.Such attacks on the secondary platforms are likely to increase given the measures Facebook and Google are taking to protect themselves.According to the CTAC, Facebook presents a particular danger because it could continue to ask its users to assume more responsibility for protecting their own data, as the site could share information with third parties unless users expressly request that such data not be shared.Some sites such as Bebo have moved away from disclosing zero information to disclosing some information as sharing data with third parties is occasionally crucial, the CTAC said.Mobile devices will be targeted increasingly, the team said, adding that brands protected by sound application of approved address lists will be much less vulnerable to malware attacks.Despite all the precautions, attacks on social media are still expected to rise, the team said.While botnets are no longer new, they will continue to grow in significance during 2011 as Shadowserver data indicates continuing growth in botnet volumes, while ThreatSense.Net data has shown a comparable growth in bot malware volumes, which all indicates that zombie PCs will constitute a higher proportion of all infected systems.Botnet threat still anticipatedIt is also expected that following the prominence in 2010 of botnets controlled through Twitter, u201cbotherdersu201d will experiment with other command and control channels.In spite of the news, the recent successes in taking down botnets are expected to continue and perhaps even increase, according to ESET.The CTAC team also said botnets would continue to be a major problem, but hoped that more people would realize that smaller low-profile botnets pose at least as big a threat as larger botnets that are being examined so closely by security researchers that they may be abandoned by their creators.Most malware will continue to infect through usual channels, such as email, malicious URLs, forums and newsgroups, by tricking computer users into clicking on something that can infect the operating system, the CTAC said.Still, it is likely that problems stemming from specific vulnerabilities of files known as .lnk will also appear occasionally u2013 although one can hope that those with malicious intentions are not able to profit from the problems.Further SCADA data-stealing attacks are also likely, the CTAC said, adding that it would probably stem from spear-phishing and malware or from Trojans, rather than self-replicating malware like Stuxnet.However, Stuxnetu2019s main purpose seems to have been sabotage, the team said. While the CTAC said the Stuxnet code could easily be adapted to attack all sorts of unrelated installations was untrue, it added that it expected that the use of malware for purposes of sabotage would remain the subject of speculation and active investigation.Additionally, automated social networking site scraping tools, as well as data leaks, will reduce the cost of creating spear-phishing attacks, leading to several high-profile attacks, the CTAC said." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35daa46cefc42b00293890" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "2011 will be Stuxnet-like viruses year !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2010/12/2011-will-be-stuxnet-like-viruses-year.html", "Date" : "2010-12-30T13:58:00-11:00", "Article" : "Known to successfully slow down the Iranian nuclear program, the Stuxnet cyber worm is now expected to spawn variations that are predicted to disrupt non-traditional IT targets, from power grids to electronic voting stations.The Stuxnet cyber worm is a very complex, efficient and stealthy string of code that was first discovered in June 2010. And while it is likely the darling of Western governments for the disruption it unleashed on Iran's embryonic nuclear program, there are emerging concerns that variants of the Stuxnet virus could bring widespread havoc to systems around the world - beyond the traditional information technology targets.eWeek reported on Tuesday that the Stuxnet worm is thought to have damaged as many as 1,000 Iranian centrifuges, after having already affected more than 62,000 computer systems in Iran alone. The genius of the Stuxnet code was reported in the mild manipulation of the centrifuge engine speeds, prompting the engines to operate just fast enough to break down.This manipulation was made possible with code commands inserted through common USB thumb drives, a subtle approach that transported the worm from computer operating systems to the electronic operating systems of the centrifuge engines.The inevitable evolution of the Stuxnet worm is now expected to yield variants that can target multitudes of electronic operating systems - such as those governing national power grids, according to eWeek."We need to think above and beyond expected targets, which are not servers or routers," Adam Bosnian, an executive vice president for information security company Cyber-Ark, told eWeek.According to a August 2010 Symantec study on the impact of the Stuxnet worm, the malware code has hit 62,867 computers in Iran; 13,336 in Indonesia; 6,552 in India; 2,913 in the United States; 2,436 in Australia; 1,038 in the United Kingdom; 1,013 in Malaysia; and 993 in Pakistan.Cybersecurity experts consider the Stuxnet worm a "groundbreaking" piece of code."It's amazing, really, the resources that went into this worm," Liam O Murchu, manager of operations with Symantec's security response team told.But the future applications of this bug - and the infinite offshoots Stuxnet will inspire - have begun to raise considerable concerns." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35daa66cefc42b00293891" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Panda predicts malware creation and cyberwars will be key features of 2011 security landscape !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2010/12/panda-predicts-malware-creation-and.html", "Date" : "2010-12-30T13:14:00-11:00", "Article" : "In its 2011 IT security predictions, Panda Security is predicting that a further rising tide of malware, along with an online cyberwar plus cyberprotests, will be the order of the day as the year progresses. According to Luis Corrons, Panda's technical director, during 2010 we have seen a significant growth in the amount of malware, a constant theme over the last few years. "This year, more than 20 million new strains have been created, more than in 2009. At present, Panda's collective intelligence database stores a total of over 60 million classified threats. The actual rate of growth year-on-year however, appears to have peaked: some years ago it was over 100%. In 2010 it was 50%. We will have to wait and see what happens in 2011", he said in a security blog. Corrons added that, also during 2010, with Stuxnet and the WikiLeaks cables suggesting the involvement of the Chinese government in the cyberattacks on Google and other targets, a turning point in the history of these conflicts has occured. In cyberwars, he says, as with other real-world conflicts today, there are no ranks of uniformed troops making it easy to distinguish between one side and another. "This is like guerrilla warfare, where it is impossible to discern who is launching the attack or from where. The only thing it is possible to ascertain is the objective", he explained. Corrons argues that, in the case of Stuxnet, it was clearly an attempt to interfere with processes in nuclear plants, and specifically, with uranium centrifuges. Attacks such as these, he says, albeit more or less sophisticated, are still ongoing, and will no doubt increase during 2011, although many of them will go unnoticed by the general public. And so on to cyberprotests which were, he says, the major new issue in 2010. Cyberprotests u2013 or hacktivism u2013 he adds, are all the rage. This new movement was initiated by the Anonymous group and Operation Payback, targeting firstly organisations trying to close the net on Internet piracy, and later in support of Julian Assange, editor-in-chief of WikiLeaks. Even users with limited technical know-how can join in the distributed denial of service attacks (DDoS) or spam campaigns, he noted. "Despite hasty attempts in many countries to pass legislation to counter this type of activity, effectively by criminalising it, we believe that in 2011 there will be yet more cyber-protests, organised by this group or others that will begin to emerge", he said. "The internet is increasingly important in our lives and is a channel for expression that offers anonymity and freedom, at least at the moment, so we will no doubt see more examples of this kind of civil protest", he added. Other areas of concern for 2011, Corrons went on say, will include security problems involving social engineering, as well as Windows 7 influencing malware development. "As we mentioned last year, it will take at least two years before we start to see the proliferation of threats designed specifically for Windows 7. In 2010 we have begun to see a shift in this direction, and we imagine that in 2011 we will continue to see new cases of malware targeting users of this new operating system", he said. There will also be security problems surrounding cellular phones, as they make the transition to smartphones, he says, adding that his prediction for 2011 is the number of threats for Android will increase considerably throughout the year, as the platform becomes the number one target for cyber-crooks. The overall picture with IT security, he notes, is not improving and whilst we have seen several hacker arrests in 2010, they have been sadly insufficient when we consider the scale of what we are fighting against. "Profits from this black market amount to thousands of millions of dollars, and many criminals operate with impunity thanks to the anonymity of the Internet and numerous legal loopholes", he said. "The economic climate has contributed to the seriousness of the situation: as unemployment grows in numerous countries, many people see this as a low risk opportunity to earn money, though this does not detract from the fact that it is a crime", he added." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35dab66cefc42b00293899" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "The ten biggest cyber security threats for 2011 !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2010/12/ten-biggest-cyber-security-threats-for.html", "Date" : "2010-12-22T13:05:00-11:00", "Article" : "PandaLabs, the antimalware laboratory of Panda Security, the cloud security company, has forecasted several radical innovations in cyber-crime for 2011. Hacktivism and cyber-war; more profit-oriented malware; social media; social engineering and malicious codes with the ability to adapt to avoid detection will be the main threats in the coming year. There will also be an increase in the threats to Mac users, new efforts to attack 64-bit systems and zero-day exploits. Following is a summary of what PandaLabs predicts as the ten major security trends of 2011: 1.Malware creation: In 2010, PandaLabs witnessed significant growth in the amount of malware and discovered at least 20 million new strains, more than in 2009. At present, Pandau2019s Collective Intelligence database stores a total of more than 60 million classified threats. The actual rate of growth year-on-year however, appears to have peaked. Several years ago it was over 100 percent and in 2010 it was 50 percent. 2.Cyber war: Stuxnet and the WikiLeaks cables suggesting the involvement of the Chinese government in the cyber-attacks on Google and other targets have marked a turning point in the history of these conflicts. Stuxnet was an attempt to interfere with processes in nuclear plants, specifically, with uranium centrifuge. Attacks such as these, albeit more or less sophisticated, are still ongoing, and will undoubtedly increase in 2011, even though many of them will go unnoticed by the general public. 3.Cyber-protests: Cyber-protests , or hacktivism, are all the rage and will continue to grow in frequency. This new movement was initiated by the Anonymous group and Operation Payback, targeting organizations trying to close the net on Internet piracy, and later in support of Julian Assange, editor-in-chief of WikiLeaks. Even users with limited technical know-how can join in the distributed denial of service attacks (DDoS) or spam campaigns. Despite hasty attempts in many countries to pass legislation to counter this type of activity effectively by criminalizing it, PandaLabs believes that in 2011 there will be more cyber-protests, organized by this group or others that will begin to emerge. 4.Social engineering: Cyber-criminals have found social media sites to be their perfect working environment, as users are even more trusting with these than with other types of tools, such as email. Throughout 2010, PandaLabs witnessed various attacks that used the two most popular social networks u2013 Facebook and Twitter u2013 as launching pads. In 2011, not only will hackers continue to use these networks, but it is predicted that they will also be used more for distributed attacks. BlackHat SEO attacks (indexing and positioning of fake websites in search engines) will also be widely employed throughout 2011, as always, taking advantage of hot topics to reach as many users as possible. In addition, a significant amount of malware will be disguised as plug-ins, media players and other similar applications. 5.Windows 7 influencing malware development: It will take at least two years before there is a proliferation of threats designed specifically for Windows 7. In 2010, PandaLabs began seeing a shift in this direction, and predicts that in 2011, new cases of malware targeting users of this new operating system will continue to emerge. 6.Mobile phones: In 2011 there will be new attacks on mobile phones, but it will not be on a massive scale. Most of the existing threats target devices with Symbian, an operating system which is now on the wane. Of the emerging systems, PandaLabs predicts that the threats for Android will increase considerably throughout the year, becoming the number one mobile target for cyber-crooks. 7.Tablets: The dominance of the iPad will start to be challenged by new competitors entering the market. Therefore PandaLabs does not believe that tablet PCs will become a major consideration for the cyber-criminals in 2011. 8.Mac: Malware for Mac exists, and will continue to exist. And as the market share of Mac users continues to grow, the number of threats will grow. The greatest concern is the number of security holes in the Apple operating system. Developers will need to patch these holes as soon as possible, as hackers are well aware of the possibilities that these vulnerabilities offer for propagating malware. 9.HTML5: HTML5 is the perfect target for many types of criminals and could eventually replace Flash. It can be run by browsers without any plug-ins, making it even more attractive to find a security hole that can be exploited to attack users regardless of which browser they use. PandaLabs expects to see the first attacks on HTML5 in the coming months. 10.Highly dynamic and encrypted threats: PandaLabs expects dynamic and encrypted threats to increase in 2011. PandaLabs is receiving more and more encrypted, stealth threats designed to connect to a server and update themselves before security companies can detect them. There are also more threats that target specific users, particularly companies, as information stolen from businesses will fetch a higher price on the black market." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35dac56cefc42b0029389f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet Worm May Be in your Computer !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2010/12/stuxnet-worm-may-be-in-your-computer.html", "Date" : "2010-12-09T05:18:00-11:00", "Article" : "Stuxnet is a virus that was specifically designed to attack supervisory control and data acquisition systems manufactured by German industrial giant Siemens. These systems are often utilized to manage water supplies, power plants and other industrial facilities, making the worm especially dangerous for governments. Who Wrote this ProgramExperts in the cyber security field have speculated that Stuxnet may have been created by a government or a well-financed group of investors, as the worm is too complex to have been developed by a single hacker. The fact that the virus has done much of its damage in Iran has caused many experts to question whether Stuxnet was designed to sabotage the countryu2019s nuclear facilities. Cyber-Attacks Getting More SophisticatedEven if Stuxnet wasnu2019t targeting U.S. infrastructure, its creation signifies a new wave of cyberattacks, viruses and malware that are designed to attack infrastructure, such as power-generating facilities. This is no longer a world where malicious defacement of Web pages is what we are focused on as a department or government. We need to become worried about more sophisticated attacks; we are worried about migration to things of value. Can Stuxnet Get Into Home Computersu201cAurora had a zero-day, but it was a zero-day against [Internet Explorer version 6],u201d he said. u201cHere you have a vulnerability, which is effective against every version of Windows since Windows 2000.u201d Recall, Microsoft no longer supports Windows 2000 and other older versions still heavily used in ICS applications. Stuxnet can use MS08-067, the same vulnerability used by Downadup (a.k.a. Conficker) to spread. MS08-067 is a critical vulnerability in the Windows Server Service on Windows 2008/Vista/2003/XP/2000 computers, which allows hackers to gain remote control of the affected computer with the same privileges as a logged on user. Patches, Fixes, Antivirus AvailableStuxnet is an attack on physical processes, which means it is not u201cpatchable.u201d Given a sophisticated cyber attack targeted at ICSs, there is little chance the ICS community will be able to detect it. IT malware researchers have the best chance of finding it. The ICS community needs to meet them and work with them. For Stuxnet, the ICS community needs to understand how to detect the infection so as to know whether to trust the control systems. The only advice that seems to make any sense as far as this virus goes is to have back-up plans ready if your system is impacted." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35dac96cefc42b002938a1" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Official Warns : US Also Vulnerable to Stuxnet Virus !", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2010/12/official-warns-us-also-vulnerable-to.html", "Date" : "2010-12-08T04:51:00-11:00", "Article" : "The computer virus Stuxnet, which some experts believe was created specifically to target Iran's nuclear facilities, could also threaten U.S. infrastructure, a senior Department of Homeland Security official says. "That virus focused on specific software implementations, and those software implementations did exist in some U.S. infrastructure," Greg Schaffer, the department's assistant secretary for cybersecurity and communications, told reporters at a breakfast Monday morning. "So, there was the potential for some U.S. infrastructure.to be impacted at some level." Schaffer described Stuxnet as a "very tiered, complex and sophisticated virus" that has attracted worldwide attention because it very specifically targeted supervisory control and data acquisition, or SCADA, systems at Siemens plants, including in Iran. Experts have said that the cost and manpower required to create such a virus seem to indicate that a government, rather than a rogue hacker or criminal gang, was behind the virus' creation. Still, Schaffer downplayed the overall threat of Stuxnet within the United States. "There was some risk, because those software packages exist within the U.S. ecosystem," he said. "But it's not clear there are any particular process within the United States that would have triggered the software." Despite widespread speculation that Stuxnet was created to target Iran's Bushehr nuclear plant, there has been little solid evidence to back up that claim. Bruce Schneier is among the security experts who have expressed skepticism, pointing to evidence that Stuxnet had spread to other countries, like India. "By allowing Stuxnet to spread globally, its authors committed collateral damage worldwide," Schneier wrote. "From a foreign policy perspective, that seems dumb." That Stuxnet may not have meant to target U.S. systems doesn't mean that facilities in the United States are safe from the virus. "One of the tricks about any piece of malware is it doesn't necessarily stay in the form in which it was released," Schaffer said, noting that such software can be manipulated by others as it spreads. He declined, however, to speculate on who or what was the original target of Stuxnet. Even if Stuxnet wasn't targeting U.S. infrastructure, its creation signifies a new wave of cyberattacks -- viruses and malware that are designed to attack infrastructure, such as power-generating facilities. "This is no longer a world where malicious defacements of Web pages is what we are focused on as a department or government," Schaffer said. "We are worried about more sophisticated attacks; we are worried about migration to things of value." Stuxnet, Shaffer says, is simply more evidence of such attacks targeting physical infrastructure. "Those," he said, "are the kinds of things that give us pause."" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657386cefc42b002938f2" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Triton Malware Targets Industrial Control Systems in Middle East", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/triton-malware-targets-industrial-control-systems-in-middle-east/129182/", "Date" : "December 15, 2017 , 1:30 pm", "Article" : "Researchers found malware called Triton on the industrial control systems of a company located in the Middle East. Attackers planted Triton, also called Trisis, with the intent of carrying out a u201chigh-impact attacku201d against an unnamed company with the goal of causing physical damage, researchers said. FireEyeu2019s Mandiant threat research team revealed the existence of the malware on Thursday. They said adversaries behind Triton are targeting Triconex Safety Instrumented System controllers sold by Schneider Electric. Researchers are comparing Tritonu2019s targeting of industrial control systems to malware used in watershed attacks Stuxnet and Industroyer (or Crashoverride). u201cIt follows Stuxnet which was used against Iran in 2010 and Industroyer which we believe was deployed by Sandworm Team against Ukraine in 2016,u201d researchers said in a blog post outlining their research. u201cTriton is consistent with these attacks, in that it could prevent safety mechanisms from executing their intended function, resulting in a physical consequence.u201d On Wednesday, Schneider Electric warned its customers of Triton (PDF). According to researchers at Dragos, credited for discovering the malware last month, Triton targets the Triconex Safety Instrumented System (SIS) by u201cenabling the replacement of logic in final control elements.u201d u201cIt is not currently known what exactly the safety implications of Trisis would be. Logic changes on the final control element implies that there could be risk to the safety as set points could be changed for when the safety system would or would not take control of the process in an unsafe condition,u201d Dragos stated in a report detailing the malware. According to FireEye, Tritonu00a0masquerades as a legitimate Triconex Trilog application used for reviewing system logs.u00a0 u201cThe malware was delivered as a Py2EXE compiled python script dependent on a zip file containing standard Python libraries, open source libraries, as well as the attacker-developed Triconex attack framework for interacting with the Triconex controllers,u201d researchers wrote. Triton attack scenarios include using the malware to shut down the Triconex SIS process that is in a safe state. The impact would be disruption of plant operations and service downtime. Attackers could also reprogram the SIS controller not to shut down in an unsafe environment, creating risks to human safety or damage to equipment, according Mandiant researchers. Each of the attack scenarios assume an adversary already has a foothold on targeted systems. Lastly, attackers could manipulate Triconexu2019s distributed control system to create unsafe conditions at the same time program SIS to allow the unsafe state resulting in possible equipment failure or human harm. u201cFireEyeu00a0has not connected this activity to any actor we currently track; however, we assess with moderate confidence that the actor is sponsored by a nation state,u201d researchers said.u00a0u201cWe assess with moderate confidence that the attacker was developing the capability to cause physical damage and inadvertently shutdown operations,u201d Mandiant researchers said. Dragos said Triton as having a u201cgame-changingu201d impact on industrial control systems and specifically safety systems. u201cTargeting SIS equipment specifically represents a dangerous evolution within ICS computer network attacks. Potential impacts include equipment damage, system downtime, and potentially loss of life. Given these implications, it is important to ensure nuance in how the industry responds and communicates about this attack,u201d Dragos researchers said. Schneider offers a number of detection and mitigation measures in its advisoryu00a0that range from making sureu00a0Triconexu00a0 systems are deployed on isolated networks and that USB drives, CDs or laptops connecting to that network should be scanned for malware ahead of time. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657506cefc42b00293921" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Assessing Weaknesses in Public Key Infrastructure", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/assessing-weaknesses-in-public-key-infrastructure/128793/", "Date" : "November 7, 2017 , 1:07 pm", "Article" : "Spreading malware with a legitimate digital certificate is an adversaryu2019s dream come true, with plenty of successful examples tracing back to nation-state attacks such asu00a0Stuxnet and Flame, and other misuseu00a0that crops up on a regular basis. For a group of University of Maryland researchers, the nagging problems surrounding certificate abuse illustrate a shortcoming to the code-signing public key infrastructure. In an academic report released last week at the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security called Certified Malware: Measuring Breaches of Trust in the Windows Code-Signing PKI, theu00a0researchers highlighted three weaknesses. After reviewing more than a 150,000 malware samples from a 2014 data set, below, researchers found 325 malicious software programs signed with either a valid, revoked or malformed certificate.  u201cDigitally signed malware can bypass system protection mechanisms that install or launch only programs with valid signatures. It can also evade antivirus programs, which often forego scanning signed binaries,u201d wrote University of Maryland researchers Doowon Kim, Bum Jun Kwon and Tudor Dumitras. Researchers said certificate abuse boils down to three types of weaknesses in the code signing PKI: inadequate client-side protections of certificates, publisher-side key mismanagement, and certificate authority-side verification failures. In an example of the case of inadequate client-side protections of certificates, researchers said simply copying an Authenticode signature from a legitimate file can reduce AV detection by 20.7 percent. In the case of publisher-side key mismanagement, the report found 72 likely compromised publisher certificates from its sample of 325. When researchers contacted eight of the publishers to notify them of the undermined certificates five were unaware of the abuse. Researchers said 27 certificates it examined were issued to malicious actors impersonating legitimate companies, underscoring certificate authority-side verification failures. Researcher Kim, in an interview with Threatpost, said that nagging problems with code-signing are systemic and PKI abuses are getting worse and not better. u201cWe found that 80 percent of abusive certificates remain a threat for almost six years after they are fist used to sign malware,u201d Kim said. The study identified revoking certificates was a major problem.u00a0u201cWe found that only 27 certificates were revoked after they should have been. The remaining untrustworthy certificates may still be trusted today as long as they carry a trusted timestamp,u201d according to Kim. Researchers explain, where previous research into abuses in the code-signing ecosystem have focused on potentially unwanted programs (PUPs) such as adware, their focus was on threats that breached the trust in the Windows code-signing PKI. u201cWhile Windows operating systems have the ability to verify code-signing signatures, they often allow unsigned or improperly signed software to be installed and executed,u201d the report said. u201cIf a program requires elevated privileges, UAC notifies the user and includes a message about the publisheru2019s identity (or lack thereof, if the signature is invalid). However, if the user chooses to grant the privilege, Windows does not take further enforcement actions.u201d Part of the research also included tests against Google Chrome and Microsoft Internet Explorer 9 and their respective Safe Browsing and SmartScreen features which protect against malicious downloads. In a test using a malformed digital certificate, researchers found by remove the file extension (.exe), the browsers do not block the download and bypass the browser protections. u201cWindows provides minimal protections against executables using forged signatures, while browser defenses apply only to files downloaded from the Web and can be bypassed. The last line of defense, therefore, is antivirus products,u201d according to researchers. However researchers said that sometimes incorrect implementation of Authenticode signature checks in some AV products allow malware authors to evade detection. u201cWe believe that this is due to the fact that AVs take digital signatures into account when filter and prioritize the list of files to scan, in order to reduce the overhead imposed on the useru2019s host,u201d researchers said. Researchers said they have cautioned some AV companies of the potential for incorrect implementation of Authenticode signature checks. Kim said that AV vendors have been extremely responsive. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657626cefc42b0029393f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Microsoft Patches Two Critical Vulnerabilities Under Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-patches-two-critical-vulnerabilities-under-attack/126239/", "Date" : "June 13, 2017 , 4:23 pm", "Article" : "Microsoftu2019s Patch Tuesday update today included a massive 95 fixes that tackle vulnerabilities in Windows, Office, Skype, Internet Explorer and its Edge browser.u00a0Twenty-seven of Microsoftu2019s patches fix remote code execution issues, allowing attackers to remotely take control of a victimu2019s PC. Eighteen patches are rated critical by Microsoft, 76 important and one is rated moderate. Of greatest concern are two vulnerabilities currently under attack that include a Windows Search Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2017-8543) and a LNK Remote Code Execution Vulnerability (CVE-2017-8464). The more serious of the two, the Windows Search Remote Code Execution Vulnerability patch, tackles a RCE in the Windows OS found the Windows Search Service (WSS), a feature in Windows that allows users to search across multiple Windows services and clients. u201cIn an enterprise scenario, a remote unauthenticated attacker could remotely trigger the vulnerability through an SMB connection and then take control of a target computer,u201d according to the bulletin. Affected are Windows Server 2016, 2012, 2008 as well as desktop systems like Windows 10, 7 and 8.1. The second vulnerability actively being exploited is the LNK Remote Code Execution Vulnerability, that allows a RCE if a specially crafted shortcut is displayed to a user. u201cIf youu2019re experiencing du00e9ju00e0 vu reading the bug title, itu2019s certainly understandable. This type of vulnerability was used by the Stuxnet malware, then found again several years later through a ZDI program submission,u201d according to Patch Tuesday commentary by Zero Day Initiative (ZDI). Those critical patches were supplemented Tuesday by additional patches released by Microsoft on the same day that address fixes for unsupported versions of Windows such as Windows XP and Windows Server 2003. The fixes are meant to prevent the stop the WannaCry ransomware outbreak from last month. The patch follows an emergency patch released just weeks ago, also for XP. The updates can be found at Microsoft Download Center, but wonu2019t be automatically be delivered through Windows Update. According security experts at Qualys, another high-priority issue for sysadmin should be a Windows Graphics RCE Vulnerability (CVE-2017-8527). This vulnerability is triggered when users view a malicious website with specially crafted fonts. u201cA remote code execution vulnerability exist when the Windows font library improperly handles specially crafted embedded fonts. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could take control of the affected system,u201d Microsoft notes. u201cOverall itu2019s a large security update which is almost double as compared to last two months in the number of patched vulnerabilities. Actively exploited SMB issue CVE-2017-8543 and other Font, Outlook, Office, Edge and IE issues are sure to keep system administrators and security teams busy,u201d said Amol Sarwate, director of engineering at Qualys. Sarwate advises organizations using Outlook that they should also prioritize a patch for a Microsoft Office Memory Corruption Vulnerability (CVE-2017-8507), which attackers can exploit by sending a malicious e-mail to a target and take complete control when the recipient views the message in Outlook. Lastly, Microsoft patches Microsoft Edge and IE for several remote code execution issues (CVE-2017-8498, CVE-2017-8530 and CVE-2017-8523) that are particularly important as they have been publicly disclosed although no attacks have been observed yet, according to Qualys. Earlier in the day, Adobe fixed 21 vulnerabilities across four products u2013 Flash, Shockwave Player, Captivate, and Adobe Digital Editions. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36578c6cefc42b00293983" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Irongate ICS Malware Steals From Stuxnet Playbook", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/irongate-ics-malware-steals-from-stuxnet-playbook/118416/", "Date" : "June 2, 2016 , 8:45 am", "Article" : "New malware that targets industrial control systems called Irongate was found by researchers who say the discovery should serve as another wakeup call to the security industry to shore up its detection capabilities around ICS and SCADA threats. Irongate, which shares some of the same attributes as the lethal Stuxnet malware, was found by researchers at FireEye Labs Advanced Reverse Engineering which published its findings today. FireEye said the malware does not currently pose a threat because itu00a0was designed with the single purpose of running within Siemens simulated control system environments. But researchers say the malware has gone undetected for years, collecting dust in Googleu2019s VirusTotal database. u201cOur ability as an industry to understand and detect threats is improving, but itu2019s not sufficient as evidenced by an example such as this,u201d said Rob Caldwell, manager of FireEye Labs Advanced Reverse Engineering. u201cWe need to get better at understanding what the threats are to industrial control systems and how to detect them to better defend against them.u201d Irongateu2019s key attributes include itsu00a0ability to perpetrate a man-in-the-middle attack against process input and output, along with attacking process operator software within industrial simulations, according to FireEye. An Irongate-compromised system could give attackers the ability to alter industrial controls unbeknownst to the system operator. Those types of techniques have been used in the past to sabotage everything from power grids to logic controllers in nuclear centrifuges. Researchers stumbled onto the malware on VirusTotal in late 2015 while researching droppers compiled with PyInstaller. Thatu2019s when FireEye researchers spotted the Irongate sample and noticed a close relationship to SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) applications and other industrial control system malware.u00a0Investigating the malware further, FireEye researchers noticed that Irongate was submitted to VirusTotal in 2012 and since then had gone undetected. A technical analysis of the malware revealed a man-in-the-middle attack designed specifically for a custom-compiled user application in a Siemens Step 7 PLC simulation environment. FireEye researchers also found the introduction of a malicious DLL capable of masking malicious behavior of the malware. That DLL had the ability to record five seconds of u201cnormalu201d traffic from a simulated PLC (programmable logic controller). An attacker could then replay the u201cnormalu201d traffic to conceal the fact they were sendingu00a0hardcoded data back to the simulated hardware unnoticed, FireEye said. But Irongate really surprised research analysts when they discovered the malware designed for industrial control systems began to act more like conventional malware. When Irongate was introduced to a VMware or Cuckoo Sandbox environment via a dropper, the malware attempted to avoid detection by staying dormant and not running. u201cWhile Stuxnet is orders of magnitude technically more advanced, Irongate borrows some similar traits,u201d said Sean McBride, senior threat intelligence analyst with FireEye. Similarities between the two include being written for attacks against a specific control system. The two also share the ability to evade discovery byu00a0detecting the presence of antivirus software (in the case of Stuxnet) and VMs (for Irongate). Compared to just a handful of other industrial control system malware u2013 such as BlackEnergy, Havex, and Stuxnet u2013 Irongate remains toothless becauseu00a0it was created for the sole purpose of the Siemens simulated control system environment. So then, who created Irongate, put it on VirusTotal and why? FireEye has three theories as to the origins of Irongate. One, a malicious actor was trying to entice someone to use and port the code from within the simulated Siemens control system environment to a real world deployment. Or, an attacker was testing Irongate in the simulated environment for use in a live environment and submitted it to VirusTotal to verify it couldnu2019t be detected. Lastly, FireEye said it strongly suspects it may have been a security researcher who abandoned their code on VirusTotal. u201cThere needs to be a lot more effort as an industry to find ICS threats,u201d said Dan Scali senior manager at FireEye. u201cWe have generally not see a lot of progress since Stuxnet to address the issues that Irongate brings up. The concern is as the capability to do these types of attacks gets easier over time we need to bolster our defenses as a counterweight.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657af6cefc42b002939b7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Setting Expectations Between States on Cyberwar", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/setting-expectations-between-states-on-cyberwar/123761/", "Date" : "February 15, 2017 , 7:30 pm", "Article" : "Au00a0a panel of security experts at the RSA Conference on Wednesday said there is a lack of agreement on a definition of cyberwarfare and of the tools used to fight them. u201cWords matter and itu2019s important to have definitions. But one of the challenges is the pace of innovation gets in front of doctrine and law. Only a few years ago the notion of warfare in cyberspace would be akin to if something blows up or a digital Pearl Harbor. But what we have seen over the years is that the future warfare between two enemies might be only the targeting of data, information or it might be financial based,u201d said panelist Oren Falkowitz, CEO and co-founder of Area 1 Security. Gary Brown, professor of cyber security at Marine Corps University said this dynamic presents a different context for cyberwarfare. u201cAs we go forward and as the lawyers debate what the traditional outlines of what cyber weaponry are, we are moving beyond the type of incident we had with Stuxnet. Cyberwarfare involves the targeting of data or information,u201d Brown said. Modern-day tactics when it comes to launching an attack, they say, are radically different than the grandfather of digital weapons Stuxnet used six years ago. Today attacks can be launched between two nations without concrete knowledge of a direct assault or attribution as to who is behind them. And the tactics used, by comparison to Stuxnet, are mundane, and could include something as rudimentary as an effective phishing attack, Falkowitz said. u201cItu2019s important to define things in the field, not just for the many legal reasons, but because in this area we are still setting expectations between states. One of the things that is important when it comes to international relations is making sure states understand what the other nation is trying to do. We debate all the time did this act cross some threshold into an armed conflict. So itu2019s important we have some shared understanding,u201d Brown said. The traditional definitions put forth by the Tallinn Manual on the International Law Applicable to Cyber Warfare written in 2012 have lost a bit relevancy when it comes to defining what cyberwarfare is today, Brown said. Espionage, theft of data and attacks on financial institutions by unknown adversaries are arenu2019t acts of war, but become part of a cyber operation as one state fights another, said Roy Katmor, co-founder and CEO of enSilo. In Israel, cyber attacks against an adversary are considered part of the cyber operations, Katmor said. Instruments used in those cyber operations include what many considered tools of espionage, not strictly cyber weapons that attack physical assets, he said. But identifying cyberwarfare and weapons is not just a game of semantics. Panelists agree common definitions of what cyberwarfare is helps define the tools needed to fight them. u201cThere is not a great need for people to have these elaborate (hacking) toolkits. Ninety-seven percent of all cyber incidents start with something as basic as a phishing attack,u201d Falkowitz said. So how does that shape how one nation state wages cyberwarfare against another? Today cyberwarfare is less about targeting u201cthingsu201d with weapons, and more about affecting and undermining systems, Falkowitz said. The bonus of keeping attacks simple and effective, it makes the arduous task of assigning attribution to cyber weapons or assaults even more difficult. An attack that uses a commodity malware with a generic power-shell command-and-control could be perpetrated by any number of criminal actors. That makes it almost impossible to understand the intent of the attack as opposed to having a digital fingerprint traceable to a nation state attacker, Katmor said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657ea6cefc42b00293a1d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Old Exploits Die Hard, Says Microsoft Report", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/old-exploits-die-hard-says-microsoft-report/117918/", "Date" : "May 7, 2016 , 9:52 am", "Article" : "Microsoftu2019s Security Intelligence Report painted a bleak picture when it comes to malware, fraudulent login attempts and the staying power of really old exploits. Key findings in the 198-page biannual report run the gamut illustrating how old threats die hard and what new threats are on the horizon. The report, released Thursday, analyzes the threat landscape of exploits, vulnerabilities, and malware using data for the third and fourth quarters of 2015. Data is culled from its own internet services and more thanu00a0600 million computers worldwide running services such as Windows Defender and the Microsoft Malicious Software Removal Tool. Certainly, there were plenty of bright spots in the report, especially if you lived in North America where, according to Microsoft, we are one of the least likely to become infected compared to other parts of the world. Another bright spot overall, while exploits and malware attacks are on the rise the number of times attackers successfully infect are declining. But the u201ctoo long: didnu2019t readu201d takeaway is simple for Microsoftu2019s SIR. u201cThreats donu2019t change as fast as we think they do. Many of the issues we are faced with today are the same as they have been for years,u201d said Dan Guido a security expert and founder of Trail of Bits. u201cMany of the exploits and malware out there only affect older systems, and Microsoft has done a great job at designing Windows 10 and other, current generation, software to avoid them entirely. One of the easiest ways you can remove yourself from harmu2019s way is to buy a new computer and get rid of an older one.u201d Vulnerabilities The longer version, Microsoft observed a rise in vulnerability disclosures of 9.4 percent in the second half of 2015 compared to the previous six months. Fifty percent of those vulnerabilities were considered medium risk by Microsoft. Disclosures of high-severity vulnerabilities increased 41.7 percent across the industry in the second half of 2015, accounting for 41.8 percent of all vulnerabilities. Attack vectors for those vulnerabilities were most likely third-party Windows applications followed by the core operating system, then OS applications and web browsers, according to Microsoft. Exploit Kits After decreasing steadily for more than a year, encounters with exploit kits increased by more than a third from the third quarter of 2015 compared fourth, according to Microsoft. Exploit kits remained the most commonly encountered type of exploit in the second half of the year, with an encounter rate more than four times that of the next most common type of exploit, according Microsoft. The most predominant exploit kit was Angler, and the most targeted operating system flaw was CVE-2010-2568, a vulnerability in Windows Shell. CVE-2010-2568, a vulnerability well known for its usage in the Stuxnet malware family in June 2010, has had a patch available since Aug. 2,u00a02010 but many systems are still being successfully targeted. u201cRecently, the industry has seen a rise on attacks exploiting 10-year-old vulnerabilities to gain access and encrypt systems. The question is, why havenu2019t these old vulnerabilities been fixed yet?u201d said Gavin Millard, EMEA Technical Director for Tenable Network Security. u201cItu2019s critically important that organizations donu2019t forget to patch the long forgotten vulnerabilities still lingering that can be easily exploited,u201d he said. Malware on the Move As for malware, according Microsoft, the number of worldwide PC hit with attempted malware infection in the second half of 2015 shot up to 20 percent compared to the previous year, a 6 percent rise. Ransomware accounted for less than 0.5 percent of malware that attempted to infect Windows PCs. Ransomware, Microsoft reported, is being used by attackers more judiciously in targeted attacks. Two new browser modifiers, Win32/Diplugem and Win32/SupTab, were primarily responsible for the increased encounter rate of malware for in the third quarter of 2015. One interesting malware finding, PCs managed by IT are much less likely to encounter malware, with about 11 percent of domain-joined PCs encountering malware in the fourth quarter, compared to about 22 percent of non-domain-joined systems, according to Microsoft. Password Attacks  Microsoft tapped intelligence from Microsoft Accounts (Outlook.com, OneDrive and Skype) and also its Azure Active Directory (used for Office 365, Box and cloud apps) and measured how many times and how successful attackers were at compromising accounts via phishing, brute force, social engineering, and other types of attacks. u201cFrom all this data gathering and analysis, each day Microsoftu2019s account protection systems automatically detect and prevent more than 10 million attacks, from tens of thousands of locations, including millions of attacks where the attacker has valid credentials,u201d according to Microsoft. Microsoft reports its accounts have in excess of 13 billion logins per day, of which 10 million attempts are flagged as fraudulent. Captain Obvious Recommendations  Microsoftu2019s recommended solutions wonu2019t surprise any seasoned security experts. Microsoft recommends: " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658136cefc42b00293a59" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "ShadowBrokersu2019 Leak Has u2018Strong Connectionu2019 to Equation Group", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/shadowbrokers-leak-has-strong-connection-to-equation-group/119941/", "Date" : "August 17, 2016 , 7:30 am", "Article" : "A high-stakes game of attribution started by a group claiming to have a cache of exploits belonging to the Equation Group took a somewhat definitive turn Tuesday afternoon. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab yesterday confirmed a connection between the tools currently up for auction by the ShadowBrokers and Equation Group exploits and malware that researchers at the security companyu00a0uncovered and disclosed in February 2015. u201cWhile we cannot surmise the attackeru2019s identity or motivation nor where or how this pilfered trove came to be, we can state that several hundred tools from the leaku00a0share a strong connectionu00a0with our previous findings from the Equation group,u201d Kaspersky Lab researchers wrote in a post to the Securelist website. The strongest link is the extensive use of RC5 and RC6 encryption algorithms in both the free file offered by the ShadowBrokers and in previous known Equation Group files. Researchers explained that the Equation Groupu2019s implementation of RC5 and RC6 uses a subtract operation with a constant of 0x61c88647. Kaspersky Lab said the ShadowBrokers free file includes 347 RC5 and RC6 implementations, and the implementations are u201cfunctionally identicalu201d and include the same 0x61c88647 constant.  From the outset, there was speculation not only as to the ShadowBrokersu2019 identity, but as to the authenticity of the files they possess. Four days ago, a post to a GitHub page that has since been taken down (a cached copy is here) announced an auction of weaponized exploits belonging to the Equation Group. The stilted post claims the ShadowBrokers hacked the Equation Group, found its weapons and would auction them off to the highest bidder, with non-refundable bids payable in Bitcoin. The post claims the auction was an attempt to get the Equation Group to bid on its own files in order to keep them secret, or to create a bidding war. Finally, if the auction earned the ShadowBrokers 1 million Bitcoin, more Equation Group files would be dumped unencrypted and at no charge. As proof of their claims, the ShadowBrokers offered up one set of files for free. As researchers studied the available files, it was becoming apparent this might not be a stunt. The exploits in the free 300MB file are numerous and are mostly attacks against routers and firewalls from major vendors such as Cisco, Juniper and Fortinet. Most of the files were three years old, time-stamped between August and October 2013, months after the Edward Snowden leaks became public in June 2013. One researcher who goes by the handle Xorcat analyzed one exploit against a Cisco Adaptive Security Appliance (ASA) firewall appliance called ExtraBacon. The exploit, Xorcat said, gives an attacker the unauthenticated access over SSH or telnet to the firewall. u201cThere you go, NSA built firewall exploits that are easy to use!u201d he wrote, adding that the attack did not crash the appliance, nor did it impact traffic. Kaspersky Lab, meanwhile, hooked its confirmation on the specific RC5 and RC6 implementations, which it said had only been seen before with the Equation Groupu2019s extensive malware set. u201cThere are more than 300 files in the Shadowbrokersu2019 archive which implement this specific variation of RC6 in 24 different forms. The chances of all these being faked or engineered is highly unlikely,u201d Kaspersky Lab researchers wrote. u201cThis code similarity makes us believe with a high degree of confidence that theu00a0tools from the ShadowBrokers leak are related to the malware from the Equation group. While the ShadowBrokers claimed the data was related to the Equation group, they did not provide any technical evidence of these claims. The highly specific crypto implementation above confirms these allegations.u201d News of the Equation Group first surfaced in early 2015 when Kaspersky Lab published a report on the cyber-espionage groupu2019s activities that dated back likely before 2000. The group had an arsenal of zero-day exploits at its disposal, including two used by Stuxnet before the attacks in 2009 against Iranu2019s Natanz nuclear facilities. Equation Group is considered among the top APT groups and has been widely linked to the National Security Agencyu2019s operations. Among its many exploits, Equation Group had the capability to attack proprietary firmware, air-gapped machines and possessed a number of malware platforms that used dozens of plugins and bootkits designed for different operations. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36584d6cefc42b00293ab5" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Attributing Advanced Attacks Remains Challenge For Researchers", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/attributing-advanced-attacks-remains-challenge-for-researchers/119508/", "Date" : "July 27, 2016 , 12:27 pm", "Article" : "Amid the connections being made between the Russian government and the attack on the Democratic National Committee (DNC), researchers on Tuesday reminded us of the challenges security experts have in correctly attributing advanced attacks. In a wide-ranging Reddit AMA, members of Kaspersky Labu2019s Global Research and Analysis Team shared some insight into their day-to-day investigations of APT groups and how attackers manipulate some of the markers many use to tie nation states to attacks. The conversation also pivoted to an array of timely topics, such as the shortage of capable security researchers, threats to critical infrastructure, the governmentu2019s role in protecting crucial assets, researcher and attacker tradecraft, and Edward Snowden. Attribution, however, remains a difficult discussion. Researcher Brian Bartholomew said that some of the indicators used to attribute attacks beyond IP addresses, languages used in code, and malware compile times are rarely shared in order to keep adversaries from manipulating those data points. u201cThere is really little that canu2019t be faked or manipulated and this is why the industry has such heated debates sometimes over attribution,u201d he said during the AMA. Kaspersky Labu2019s researchers steer clear of attribution by policy. The group has published dozens of reports on the activities of government-sponsored attack groups, starting with Stuxnet at the beginning of the decade, and later this year at Virus Bulletin, Kaspersky researchers are expected to deliver a paper on the false flags used by attackers to hamper attribution. By consensus, most attacks are attributed to the U.S., U.K., China, Russia and others in the Middle East, but the researchers cautioned that cyber capabilities donu2019t run in parallel to kinetic abilities. u201cIt would make sense [that] countries with more resources to spend in such operations would be the most active, which would reflect the listu2026,u201d said researcher Vicente Diaz. u201cThat does not mean that developing countries donu2019t participate in such operations, however many times they use external resources as it is cheaper than developing major u2018cyber-capabilities.u2019 That, among other things, makes attribution more difficult (is not the same as developing an advanced and unique weapon rather than using a common one).u201d The researchers were asked about the U.S. governmentu2019s reaction to such attacks, in particular of public-private sector cooperation and President Obama signing yesterday of Presidential Policy Directive 441 which explains the countryu2019s response and incident coordination. u201cThereu2019s definitely a big role for government to play in tackling this issue. More importantly, in a way it has to be the government doing some of these things,u201d said researcher Juan Andres Guerrero-Saade. u201cFor example, the debate on u2018hacking backu2019 is one that Iu2019d rather not extend beyond the powers of the public sector (as what you might call an extension of the governmentu2019s u2018monopoly on the legitimate use of violenceu2019). At a time when attribution is artisanal and reliable attribution is nearly impossible, Iu2019d much rather certain government agencies handle the recourse to hacking back entirely.u201d Attacks against critical infrastructure, ranging from Stuxnet to Black Energy were discussed as well, with particular focus on the ongoing vulnerable nature of industrial control and SCADA systems and the potential for real-world damage and loss of life from an attack on a utility or other critical system. Vitaly Kamluk, one of the researchers deeply involved in the investigation of the Equation Group, shared his concerns about malware crossing over between virtual and physical worlds and the lack of complete control operators may have over their systems. u201cThis is what wakes me up at night, because this illusion of control we have over computer systems opens infinite possibilities to create tragedies by people who use their power against others,u201d Kamluk said. u201cFrom my point of view, this is what makes human race primitive.u201d As for going behind the curtain and gaining insight into an APT investigation, the researchers shared some of their backgrounds and experiences learning reverse engineering and binary analysis for example, and the importance of practical experience. u201cFor me personally, experience worked best. Iu2019d recommend you apply for an internship at a security company and start learning security from the real world,u201d said Costin Raiu, head of the Kaspersky research team. u201cUnfortunately, too many of the formal education systems nowadays are well behind what is happening in the real world. Iu2019ve seen people finish university with computer science degree, however, they didnu2019t know any practical security, only 5-10 year old theory.u201d Guerrero-Saade said practical experience is essential in a field that changes almost daily. u201cOne thing I found really striking as I got to know people in GReAT and other researchers doing great work in the industry, a lot of them are not [computer science] grads, nor engineers. I happen to know a brilliant researcher who is a PhD in Physics. Some who never graduated high school,u201d he said. u201cIt was Philosophy and Logic for me. You get the sense that the more identifying feature here (apart from a love for technology) is the drive to learn new things all the time and leverage that knowledge in cool ways. The security landscape evolves quickly and drastically and it takes constant work to stay on top of it.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658556cefc42b00293abf" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet LNK Exploits Still Widely Circulated", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stuxnet-lnk-exploits-still-widely-circulated/125089/", "Date" : "April 20, 2017 , 12:15 pm", "Article" : "One of the alleged mandates around the development of the Stuxnet worm was that malwareu2019s numerous componentsu2014which included a handful of zero daysu2014should never escape the Natanz uranium enrichment facility in Iran. Eight years later, evidence continues to mount as to how that mandate was categorically not met. Kaspersky Lab today released a report on exploits in the wild that indicates that endpoints are still running head-on into exploits for the since-patched LNK vulnerability (CVE-2010-2568), almost two times more in 2016 than the next most prevalent exploit in circulation, Lotoor, which roots Android devices. In 2016, the Kaspersky report says, exploits for the LNK vulnerability (25 percent) and Lotoor (16 percent) account for 41 percent of exploits encountered by users. While these numbers are down from 2015 (27 percent and 11 percent respectively), the LNK exploit appears to be hanging around for the foreseeable future. u201cThis may be due to the fact that malware that uses these exploits have a self-replicating feature, constantly recreating themselves in the attacked network where vulnerable computers are installed,u201d Kaspersky Lab said in its report. The LNK exploit was just part of the Stuxnet attacks on Natanz, which targeted not only Windows machines running in the facility, but primarily Siemens programmable logic controllers managing centrifuges used to enrich uranium to support Iranu2019s nuclear efforts. Exploits revolved around maliciously crafted .LNK files that were not processed securely as Windows Explorer icons were displayed. Successful exploits allowed the attackers to execute code in the Windows shell on vulnerable machines. LNK files define shortcuts to files or directories; Windows allows them to use custom icons from control panel files (.CPL). In Windows, those icons are loaded from modules, either executables or DLLs; CPLs are DLLs. An attacker is able to then define which executable module would be loaded, and use the .LNK file to execute arbitrary code inside of the Windows shell. While Microsoft quickly patched the vulnerability once it was disclosed in 2010, it was reported five years later that the original patches were incomplete, forcing Microsoft to release an update bulletin with new patches. The Kaspersky report, meanwhile, demonstrates the value of reliable exploits to attackers. Many of the exploits called out in the report are not flashy unpatched zero-days, but instead have some mileage on them. While exploit kits dropped off the lists of top threats, venerable standbys such as CVE-2012-0158 in Office and CVE-2014-2423 in Java continue to draw the attention of exploit writers. The widespread disappearance of exploit kitsu2014largely because of the arrest of the criminals behind Angleru2014has forced criminals to return to email-based attacks with macro-based malware buried inside Office attachments, now a top vehicle for malware delivery. For example, attacks against browser and Windows vulnerabilities dropped 33.4 percent and 21.5 percent respectively from 2015 to 2016, Kaspersky said, while Office exploits rose 103 percent. While exploits against Adobe Flash and Android rose last year, Java and Adobe Reader exploits joined browsers and Windows on the negative side. Kaspersky Lab said the number of browser vulnerabilities overall dropped 8 percent last year, while disclosed Office bugs went up 20 percent. Other noteworthy data points from the report include: " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658666cefc42b00293acf" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Researchers Crack Furtim, SFG Malware Connection", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/researchers-crack-furtim-sfg-malware-connection/119334/", "Date" : "July 18, 2016 , 1:26 pm", "Article" : "New research is challenging what security researchers know aboutu00a0Furtim, a new malware strainu00a0thatu00a0has been compared to Stuxnet because of its believed targeting of industrial controls in energy companies. According to security experts at Damballa, Furtim and the recently discovered SFG malware are one in the same u2013 only varying by a few lines of code that include the HTTP header information. The research clarifies earlier investigations that distinguished Furtim and SFG as closely related, but separate malware strains. Researcher Don Jackson, senior threat researcher at Damballa, says further analysis shows that they are the same. u201cThe only difference between them is in the HTTP header. Those headers simply have different values and are chosen at random by the malware so that different builds of the same malware donu2019t look the same on the network,u201d Jackson said. Jackson said additional research into Furtim/SFG shows that the malware is not singling out energy plants as targets, as previously thought, but is trying to infect any network in an attempt to steal user credentials. u201cThis malware is being distributed via a variety of different methods including drive-by downloads, malvertising and spam messages. Itu2019s extremely opportunistic and not specifically targeting one sector over another. Itu2019s just infecting Windows machines where ever it can find a way in,u201d Jackson said. It was previous believed that Furtim/SFG was malware was designed to specifically target the energy sector. On July 12, a report by SentinelOne said a SFG dropper was targeting an unspecified European energy company. The company believed SFG was the work of a state-sponsored group that used the dropper as a first stage of a targeted attack where the Furtim malware was then downloaded. On July 14, SentinelOne updated its research: u201cThere has been a number of stories published since the posting of this blog that have suggested this attack is specifically targeting SCADA energy management systems. We want to emphasize that we do not have any evidence that this is in fact the case. The focus of our analysis was on the characteristics of the malware, not the attribution or target.u201d Furtim/SFGu2019s principal mission was to avoid detection and execute privilege escalation exploits for patched Windows vulnerabilities (CVE-2014-4113 and CVE-2015-1701), as well as a bypass for Windows User Account Control (UAC), which limits user privileges. u201cAs far as the number and type of tactics this malware is really state of the art. It tries almost every trick that Iu2019ve run across to stay hidden and being analyzed. Itu2019s not nation-state level, but it is extremely well put together malware,u201d Jackson said. Furtim was uncovered by security company enSilo, which published a report in May on the malware. The sample described by enSilo had three payloads: a power-saving configuration tool that disables sleep mode and hibernation on Windows machines in order to maintain command and control connections; the Pony malware, which steals credentials and sends them back to the attackersu2019 server; and an unknown payload that sends a list of security processes running on the machine to the command and control server, even though the malware has theoretically already wiped AV off the machine before installing itself. According to Damballa researchers, the Furtim/SFG malware is being distributed by a version of the Fast Flux botnet that it is calling Dark Cloud via a Malware-as-a-Service relationship. Fast Flux uses a DNS technique used to hide criminal cybercrime activities by using an ever-changing network of compromised hosts acting as proxies. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36589b6cefc42b00293b24" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Report Connects Iran to Critical Infrastructure Hacks Worldwide", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/report-connects-iran-to-critical-infrastructure-hacks-worldwide/109666/", "Date" : "December 2, 2014 , 10:08 am", "Article" : "Iranian state-sponsored hackers have been singled out for attacks on critical infrastructure worldwide, including 10 targets in the United States. Security firm Cylance today released an 86-page report on Operation Cleaver that lays out Iranu2019s hacking capabilities and motivations to attack global interests beyond the U.S. and Israel, long thought to be behind Stuxnet, and espionage campaigns using Flame and Duqu malware. u201cThey have bigger intentions: to position themselves to impact critical infrastructure globally,u201d the report said. u201cWe believe that if the operation is left to continue unabated, it is only a matter of time before the worldu2019s physical safety is impacted by it. While the disclosure of this information will be a detriment to our ability to track the activity of this group, it will allow the security industry as a whole to defend against this threat.u201d A Reuters article quoted a senior Iranian official who dismissed the report. u201cThis is a baseless and unfounded allegation fabricated to tarnish the Iranian government image, particularly aimed at hampering current nuclear talks,u201d said Hamid Babaei, spokesman for Iranu2019s mission to the United Nations. Attribution is always a challenge, in particular with these APT-style attacks where persistence and the ability to elude detection go hand-in-hand. Cylance, however, it was able to trace a number of domains used in the various attacks that were registered to an Iranian corporation Tarh Andishan. Also, source netblocks and ASNs are registered in Iran. The infrastructure supporting the attacks is hosted by Netafraz, an Iranian hosting provider, among other bits of evidence laid out in the report. Cylance also identified one military target in the U.S. by name, the Navy Marine Corps Intranet (NMCI), in addition to networks in industries such as energy, utilities, oil, gas, and chemical. Major airlines, airports and other transportation companies were also targeted, as were telecommunications operators, defense companies, technology providers, government agencies and educational institutions storing vital research. u201cDuring intense intelligence gathering over the last 24 months, we observed the technical capabilities of the Operation Cleaver team rapidly evolve faster than any previously observed Iranian effort. As Iranu2019s cyber warfare capabilities continue to morph, the probability of an attack that could impact the physical world at a national or global level is rapidly increasing,u201d the Cylance report said. Cylance said that it has observed many of the same hacking techniques and exploits used by other APT outfits traced to China and Russia, as well as some Eastern European cybercrime organizations. Operation Cleaver uses a mix of off-the-shelf SQL injection attacks and exploits for long-standing Microsoft vulnerabilities such as MS08-067 that allow the attackers to gain a foothold inside a corporate network and move about at will. Customized tools have also been discovered that facilitate credential theft, the use of shell command lines, backdoors, system and process enumeration, network sniffing, keylogging ad more. Cylance says it has 8 gigabytes of data and more than 80,000 files exfiltrated from victims, as well as hacker tools, victim logs and reconnaissance data. It has also been able to sinkhole command and control servers to watch attacks in progress. The report also contains more than 150 indicators of compromise. In most cases, once Operation Cleaver has infiltrated an organization, it has deep access via Active Directory domain controllers and credentials and compromised VPN credentials. In most cases, theyu2019re exploiting vulnerabilities in Windows, Adobe products, Apache, and Cisco VPNs, switches and routers. Its most successful campaigns via these avenues, Cylance said, have been against South Korean transportation networks, including airports and airlines. To date no zero day exploits have been found, Cylance said. Cylanceu2019s report also cautions that Operation Cleaver could have a special interest in airline and SCADA networks present in most critical industries. Overall, the campaign could be retaliation for Stuxnet, Duqu and Flame, Cylance said. u201cWithin our investigation, we had no direct evidence of a successful compromise of specific Industrial Control Systems (ICS) or Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) networks, but Cleaver did exfiltrate extremely sensitive data from many critical infrastructure companies allowing them to directly affect the systems they run,u201d Cylance said in its report. u201cThis data could enable them, or affiliated organizations, to target and potentially sabotage ICS and SCADA environments with ease.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658a26cefc42b00293b35" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "DHS Releases Hundreds of Documents on Wrong Aurora Project", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/dhs-releases-hundreds-of-documents-on-wrong-aurora-project/107107/", "Date" : "July 9, 2014 , 2:26 pm", "Article" : "In response to a Freedom of Information Act request for information about the Operation Aurora attack on Google and other organizations in 2009 the Department of Homeland Security released hundreds of pages of documents related not to that attack campaign, but to the Aurora project run at Idaho National Lab years earlier in which engineers destroyed a generator with a cyber attack as a demonstration. The FOIA request from the staff at MuckRock was sent in May and asked for any documents that DHS had on Operation Aurora, a string of attacks against Google, Adobe and other high profile companies that Google later detailed publicly. The attacks were among the first targeted attacks against large organizations to be acknowledged publicly and other companies have since followed suit. MuckRock requested anything that DHS possessed about the attacks. u201cI seek to obtain copies of material in the possession of the United States Department of Homeland Security u2013 whether it be physical hard-copy, electronic format or another applicable format u2013 which describes, cites, identifies, depicts or is particular to Operation Aurora or Elderwood Group, or other substantive documented correspondence describing, or specific to, the aforementioned subject, dated 1 June 2009 through 1 January 2012,u201d the MuckRock request says. u201cOperation Aurora consisted of coordinated Internet-based malicious activities and associated behavior against identified targets utilizing specialized malicious software. Targets cited in material and identified in media outlet articles describing Operation Aurora include Adobe Systems, Northrop Grumman, Juniper Networks and Rackspace.u201d Rather than responding with the requested documents, or a letter saying none were found, DHS replied on July 1, enclosing more than 800 pages of documents related to the Control Systems Security Program at DHS. The documents consist of slide decks with background on cyber threats and attacks, including the Mariposa botnet and Stuxnet, and page after page of internal weekly summary reports. There also are mitigation timelines for the Aurora project. Perry Pederson, who was director of the CSSP at DHS at the time the test was conducted in 2007, said in a blog post that the documentsu00a0illustrate the difficulty and challenge of the test. u201cSet aside for the moment the vulnerability itself and youu2019ll see in these documents a massive effort to apply the public/private partnership model to a real problem. Many U.S. Government agencies were briefed as well as public entities. DHS worked through the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) and the Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) in an effort to reach potential targets of Aurora type attacks,u201d Pederson wrote. u201cThe one thing that may not be so clear in the released documents is the basic engineering that when into assessing the vulnerability in the first place. Yes, the u2018hacku2019 was fairly trivial when you have the necessary engineering background and access to substation equipment, but discovering the Aurora vulnerability took a lot of work by a dedicated team of talented engineers.u201d The Idaho National Lab test created a huge stir in the security community and the industrial control and SCADA worlds at the time. The video of the generator shaking and smoking was posted across the Web and shown on CNN for days. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658d36cefc42b00293b7e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnetu2019s First Five Victims Provided Path to Natanz", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stuxnets-first-five-victims-provided-path-to-natanz/109291/", "Date" : "November 11, 2014 , 12:40 pm", "Article" : "Stuxnetu2019s first five victims were a carefully crafted list of targets that ultimately provided the attackers with the road map they needed to get inside a uranium enrichment plant in Natanz, Iran and disrupt the countryu2019s nuclear program. Cobbled together from clues left behind by the infamous malware since it was detected in mid-2010, researchers at Kaspersky Labu2019s Global Research & Analyst Team have identified five organizations inside Iran they believe are the attacku2019s first victims. u201cWe collected Stuxnet files for two years. After analyzing more than 2,000 of these files, we were able to identify the organizations that were the first victims of the wormu2019s different variants in 2009 and 2010,u201d Kaspersky researchers wrote in a report released today. This is not the first effort to uncover Stuxnetu2019s first targets; researchers at Symantec pinned down that Stuxnet was distributed from five organizations based on data collected which showed that Stuxnet saves its victimsu2019 system name, Windows domain and IP address in an internal log. Additional data studied by Kaspersky Lab led it to identify the first five, a mix of industrial control systems suppliers, engineering firms, and a centrifuge makeru2014all likely with partner ties to Natanz, including two placed on a sanctions list by the United States Department of Justice. u201cFor Stuxnet to be effective and penetrate the highly guarded installations where Iran was developing its nuclear program, the attackers had a tough dilemma to solve: how to sneak the malicious code into a place with no direct internet connections?u201d the Kaspersky Lab report says. u201cThe targeting of certain u2018high profileu2019 companies was the solution and it was probably successful.u201d As has now been determined, Stuxnet was not contained to its target companies; the malware leaked out and spread within months of the first infections to organizations worldwide. Analysis of code found on systems inside the first victim, Foolad Technic Engineering Co. in Isfahan, Iran, indicate Stuxnetu2019s appetite for Siemens Step 7 projects in addition to affecting the operation of centrifuge motors. The malware found at Foolad was compiled June 22, 2009 and had infected its first computer within hours, ruling out the possibility it was carried out via USB stick, Kaspersky researcher wrote. Foolad, which was attacked again in April 2010 by the third version of Stuxnet, builds automation systems for Iranian industrial companies, in particular in the steel and power industries. It also has strong ties to industrial control systems operators. u201cClearly, the company has data, drawings and plans for many of Iranu2019s largest industrial enterprises on its network. It should be kept in mind that, in addition to affecting motors, Stuxnet included espionage functionality and collected information on STEP 7 projects found on infected systems. u201cThe persistence on the part of the Stuxnet creators may indicate that they regarded Foolad not only as one of the shortest paths to the wormu2019s final target,u201d Kaspersky researchers wrote, u201cbut as an exceptionally interesting object for collecting data on Iranu2019s industry.u201d Behpajooh Co. Elec & Comp. Engineering, another industrial automation company in Isfahan, is also suspected to be among the first five victims. It too was attacked multiple timesu2014once in 2009 and twice more in 2010 by all three Stuxnet variants. Kaspersky researchers call Bahpajooh u201cPatient Zero,u201d leading to the widest distribution of Stuxnet. The company was implicated in a U.S. investigation of a Dubai firm smuggling bomb components into Iran. Its connection to Iranu2019s largest steel maker Mobarakeh Steel Company is of more significance, Kaspersky researchers said. The company was infected shortly after Behpajooh and could be the answer as to why Stuxnet burst out of containment. u201cStuxnet infecting the industrial complex, which is clearly connected to dozens of other enterprises in Iran and uses an enormous number of computers in its production facilities, caused a chain reaction, resulting in the worm spreading across thousands of systems in two or three months,u201d Kaspersky researchers wrote, who added that by July 2010, Stuxnet had already infected computers in Russia and Belarus. The third of the first five victims, Neda Industrial Group, was infected on July 7, 2009. The organization is on a U.S. Justice Department sanctions list after being charged with illegally exporting materials that could be used in military applications. Neda is a branch organization of Nedaye Micron Electronics Company in Tehran and Neda Overseas Electronics LLC in Dubai, which are industrial automation service providers for power plants, cement and oil gas petroleum industries. Neda was attacked only once and Stuxnet never left the organization according to infection logs. u201cHowever, to leave the organization may have not been its purpose in this case,u201d the researchers wrote. u201cAs noted earlier, the capability of stealing information about STEP 7 projects from infected systems was of special interest to the creators of Stuxnet.u201d On the same date as the Neda infection, Control-Gostar Jahed, another Iranian industrial automation company, was attacked. It was attacked only once, the researchers said, adding that it had the smallest propagation line. Clues toward the final victim were found in Stuxnet files logging an attack that started May 11, 2010 on three computers named KALASERVER, ANTIVIRUSPC, and NAMADSERVER. Kaspersky researchers deduced that the final victim is likely Kala Electric, Iranu2019s principal manufacturer of uranium enrichment centrifuges; itu2019s at Kala Electric where the centrifuges are developed and tested. u201cThus, it appears quite reasonable that this organization of all others was chosen as the first link in the infections chain intended to bring the worm to its ultimate target,u201d Kaspersky researchers wrote. u201cIt is in fact surprising that this organization was not among the targets of the 2009 attacks.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658e86cefc42b00293ba5" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Details Surface on Stuxnet Patch Bypass", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/details-surface-on-stuxnet-patch-bypass/111579/", "Date" : "March 11, 2015 , 1:01 pm", "Article" : "It took 10 hours to find what had eluded others for close to five years. German computer science student Michael Heerklotz spent the Christmas holiday reading Countdown to Zero Day, a narrative on the discovery and impact of Stuxnet, the computer worm considered one of the first cyberweapons, and which is accused of putting a serious dent in Iranu2019s development of nuclear weaponry. The book inspired the University of Augsburg student to examine Stuxnet, specifically the .LNK vulnerability in the Windows shell that was exploited during the hack of the Natanz uranium enrichment facility. Microsoft had patched the flaw in August 2010, and in the four-plus years since, no public reports of problems with the patch or residual effects from the vulnerability were ever heard. It was assumed that Windows machines that were patched against CVE-2010-2568 were in the clear. u201cI wanted to take a closer look at the .LNK vulnerability by testing it on an old Windows XP installation, and then trying to figure out what Mircosoft did to fix it,u201d Heerklotz said in an email to Threatpost. u201cAmazingly, after about 10 hours, I found a way to bypass the fix, by abusing other parts of the .LNK code which Microsoft most likely did not check too carefully when they created the patch.u201d Heerklotz reported in January what heu2019d found to HPu2019s Zero Day Initiative, a vulnerability disclosure program originally started by TippingPoint before it was acquired by HP. The program vets vulnerabilities, creates proof-of-concept code, and eventually shares its findings with the affected vendor while paying out a bounty to the researcher and giving its customers first dibs on a fix. Yesterday, HP disclosed intimate details of what Heerklotz had discovered, hours after Microsoft produced a patch that took care of the Stuxnet bugu2014again. u201cIt was a bit tricky, but not too complicated, and it puzzles me that nobody discovered (and published) it earlier,u201d Heerklotz said. u201cOther researchers have looked at the patch, too, but I guess nobody invested too much time, because everything seemed to be OK.u201d The .LNK vulnerability was part of Stuxnetu2019s arsenal as it went after Iranu2019s nuclear program with a barrage of zero-dayu00a0exploits targeting Windows vulnerabilities, as well as shortcomings with Siemens programmable logic controllers (PLCs) in charge of centrifuge operations inside Natanz. u201cThat patch didnu2019t completely address the .LNK issue in the Windows shell, and there were weaknesses left behind that have been resolved in this patch,u201d said Brian Gorenc, manager of vulnerability research with ZDI. Gorenc said the vulnerability works on Windows machines going back to Windows XP through Windows 8.1, and the proof of concept exploit developed by Heerklotz and tweaked by ZDI evades the validation checks put in place by the original Microsoft security bulletin. From a high level, Stuxnet was launched after a USB drive was inserted into an air-gapped machine at the facility that was loaded with an exploit for a Windows vulnerability that would execute when a user browsed a directory or folder containing the .LNK exploit, HP said. u201cWindows allowed for .LNK files, which define shortcuts to other files or directories, to use custom icons from .CPL (Control Panel) files. The problem is that in Windows, icons are loaded from modules (either executables or dynamic link-libraries). In fact, .CPL files are actually DLLs,u201d HP said in its advisory. u201cBecause an attacker could define which executable module would be loaded, an attacker could use the .LNK file to execute arbitrary code inside of the Windows shell and do anything the current user could.u201d Microsoftu2019s answer in the August 2010 patch was to whitelist which .CPL files could load non-standard icons for links. HP explains the bypass in detail in its advisory, adding that for all of its necessary investments in memory corruption attack mitigations, Microsoft paid in this instance for a 10-year-old decision to load such shortcut icons by loading executable modules into the process. u201cThe Windows operating system itself will handle resolving ASLR and loading the attack into executable memory. And because of that, the attack is stable, reliable, and works cleanly across Windows versions. Microsoft has gone to a great deal of effort to make exploitation of memory corruption bugs more difficult,u201d HP said. u201cThis is a classic example of the Defenderu2019s Dilemma u2014 the defender must be strong everywhere, while the attacker needs to find only one mistake.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658ea6cefc42b00293baa" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Equation APT Group Attack Platform A Study in Stealth", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/equation-apt-group-attack-platform-a-study-in-stealth/111550/", "Date" : "March 11, 2015 , 7:00 am", "Article" : "Spies thrive only when theyu2019re able to quietly infiltrate targets and slither away unnoticed; this principle is the same whether weu2019re talking about the physical world, or digital. The recently uncovered Equation APT group is prime example of the investment nation-state sponsored attackers make in stealth. The group, which researchers at Kaspersky Lab speculate has been active since 2001u2014perhaps as far back as 1996u2014took great pains to avoid detection with this super valuable espionage platform. It was selective about against whom it was deployed, found unique ways to store stolen data, and developed more than 100 plug-ins, each with a specific function, that are deployed only to certain targets holding certain information. Equation, announced in February during the Kaspersky Security Analyst Summit, has been linked to the developers of Stuxnet, Flame and other advanced actors. It has one of the biggest malware and exploit arsenals at its disposal, including one of the first modules enabling attackers to reprogram HDD or SSD firmware from more than a dozen vendors. Today, researchers at Kaspersky Lab released a deeper analysis of the older attack platform used by the Equation group. EquationDrug is a complete platform that is selectively installed on targetsu2019 computers. It is used to deploy any of 116 modules (Kaspersky says it has found only 30 so far); the modules support a variety of cyberespionage functions ranging from data exfiltration to monitoring a targetu2019s activities local activities and on the Web. u201cThe architecture of the whole framework resembles a mini-operating system with kernel-mode and user-mode components carefully interacting with each other via a custom message-passing interface. The platform includes a set of drivers, a platform core (orchestrator) and a number of plugins,u201d Kaspersky researchers wrote in a report. u201cEvery plugin has a unique ID and version number that defines a set of functions it can provide. Some of the plugins depend on others and might not work unless dependencies are resolved.u201d The 30 modules analyzed by Kaspersky represent a wide cut of capabilities present in the EquationDrug platform. Many of the modules perform system-level functions, gathering data specific to the target computer such as operating system versions, time zone details, Windows management instrumentation, and much more. There are also modules that allow the attackers to manage target computers, enabling them to manipulate processes, load drivers and libraries or manage files and directories. Network traffic can be stolen or re-routed; there are modules for tampering with DNS resolution, for example. Yet other modules keep tabs on user activity, learning what network shares and resources the machine has access to, steal cached passwords, monitor live user activity in web browsers and browser history, monitor removable storage drive usage, log keystrokes and clipboard storage, and run a passive backdoor that runs Equation shellcode from raw traffic. EquationDrug is an older version of the Equation attack platform; it cannot run on modern operating systems, Kaspersky Lab said, because there are checks as to whether the OS is newer than Windows XP/2003. Some plugins support Windows 95/98/ME machines. The updated GrayFish platform is used for newer versions of Windows. Kaspersky researchers said they also studied code artifacts and analyzed timestamps inside EquationDrug, concluding from a limited number of text strings they were able to deobfuscate that the attackers are native English speakers. The link timestamps also demonstrate its developers generally worked a Monday through Friday 9-5 work week in the UTC-3 or UTC-4 time zone. While Equation demonstrates some of the same sophistication used by other APT, and even some criminal groups, it went to great lengths to hide itself while remaining stable and reliable. For example, the attackersu2019 use of the firmware module gives them never-ending persistence on a computer, while another module creates a hidden and encrypted storage partition on the hard drive where stolen data is kept that is invisible to the target. u201cThe EquationDrug case demonstrates an interesting trend that we have been seeing while analyzing supposedly nation-state cyberattack tools: a growth in code sophistication,u201d Kaspersky researchers wrote. u201cIt is clear that nation-state attackers are looking for better stability, invisibility, reliability and universality in their cyberespionage tools.u201d The report also shares technical details on the 30 plugins discovered so far, as well as information on libraries, sniffers, backdoors and other information that can be used as indicators of compromise. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658ec6cefc42b00293bad" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Patched Windows Machines Exposed to Stuxnet LNK Flaw All Along", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/patched-windows-machines-exposed-to-stuxnet-lnk-flaw-all-along/111558/", "Date" : "March 10, 2015 , 1:00 pm", "Article" : "A five-year-old Microsoft patch for the .LNK vulnerability exploited by Stuxnet failed to properly protect Windows machines, leaving them exposed to exploits since 2010. Microsoft today is expected to release a security bulletin, MS15-020, patching the vulnerability (CVE-2015-0096). It is unknown whether there have been public exploits of patched machines. The original LNK patch was released Aug. 2, 2010. The .LNK vulnerability was part of Stuxnetu2019s arsenal as it went after Iranu2019s nuclear program with a barrage of u00a0exploits targeting Windows vulnerabilities, as well as shortcomings inside Siemens programmable logic controllers in charge of centrifuge operations inside the Natanz uranium enrichment facility. German researcher Michael Heerklotz in January reported the new findings to HPu2019s Zero Day Initiative, which is expected to release full details today at 5 p.m. Eastern time. u201cThat patch didnu2019t completely address the .LNK issue in the Windows shell, and there were weaknesses left behind that have been resolved in this patch,u201d said Brian Gorenc, manager of vulnerability research with ZDI. Gorenc said the vulnerability works on Windows machines going back to Windows XP through Windows 8.1, and the proof of concept exploit developed by Heerklotz and tweaked by ZDI evades the validation checks put in place by the original Microsoft security bulletin, CVE-2010-2568. LNK files define shortcuts to files or directories; Windows allows them to use custom icons from control panel files (.CPL). In Windows, ZDI said, those icons are loaded from modules, either executables or DLLs; CPLs are DLLs. An attacker is able to then define which executable module would be loaded, and use the .LNK file to execute arbitrary code inside of the Windows shell. u201cWhat makes this vulnerability so attractive is the history behind its attack surface, and the ability to load arbitrary DLLs to execute code,u201d Gorenc said. u201cFrom an attackeru2019s perspective, if they can get a user to view a folder with a malicious LNK stored inside, they will be able to execute arbitrary code. Itu2019s an easy attack surface for them to hit.u201d The exploit code is fairly easy to generate, Gorenc said, and does not require bypassing any of the memory mitigations put in place by Microsoft in its operating system. Gorenc would not say whether the vulnerability had been exploited in the wild, but did point out that a Metasploit module has been available since 2010 and has been used in countless pen-tests. The timing of this announcement coincides with new research coming out of last monthu2019s Kaspersky Security Analyst Summit, during which the Equation APT group was uncovered. The group has been linked to Stuxnet, Flame and other advanced attack platforms, and made use of the same .LNK vulnerability. The most direct connection was found in the Fanny worm that is part of the Equation malware toolkit and pre-dates Stuxnet. The worm exploits two zero day vulnerabilities later used by Stuxnet, including the .LNK exploit. Fanny was used to infect air-gapped machines inside of sensitive installations, moving between infected systems via USB removable storage drives. When a USB stick is infected, the Fanny worm creates a hidden storage partition on the drive. When the infected stick is plugged into an air-gapped machine that is not online, it maps that computeru2019s system information. If the stick is later plugged into a machine that is connected to the Internet, the stolen data is sent to the attackers. The attackers can then save commands to the hidden partition, and if the stick is plugged back in to the air-gapped machine, Fanny will recognize the commands and run them. u201cThis effectively allowed the Equation group to run commands inside air-gapped networks thorugh the use of infected USB sticks, as well as map the network infrastructure of such networks,u201d said a report written by Kaspersky Lab. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36590e6cefc42b00293be7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Video: Vitaly Kamluk on The Equation Group APT", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/video-vitaly-kamluk-on-the-equation-group-apt/111311/", "Date" : "February 27, 2015 , 11:17 am", "Article" : "Kaspersky Labu2019s global research and analysis team uncovered what they claim is the most sophisticated advanced persistent threat group yet known.  Known as the Equation Group, researchers led by GReAT directoru00a0Costin Raiuu00a0say the threat actors have been operating for 15 years or more and are known to have intercepted and maliciously modified hardware and CDs. Beyond that, the Equation Group is known to have had access to a pair of zero-day vulnerabilities that would eventually be used in the infamous Stuxnet attacks. We caught up with Kaspersky Lab principal security researcher Vitaly Kamluk at the companyu2019s Security Analyst Summit in Cancun, Mexico. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659296cefc42b00293c18" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Inside nls_933w.dll, the Equation APT Persistence Module", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/inside-nls_933w-dll-the-equation-apt-persistence-module/111128/", "Date" : "February 17, 2015 , 11:01 am", "Article" : "CANCUN u2013 The names called out like beacons from the screen: Samsung; Seagate; Western Digital; Hitachi; Maxtor. Hardware makers were in the crosshairs of the Equation APT group and it was perhaps the worst possible scenario imagined by researchers looking at the frightening and extensive storehouse of capabilities within the attack platform. By extending its reach into hard drive firmware, for example, this espionage gang had perpetual persistence on compromised machines. No matter of clean-up efforts could scrub module nls_933w.dll from hardware. None. u201cThis is an ultimate persistence mechanism, and it has the ultimate resilience to removal. This is a next level of persistence never seen before,u201d said Vitaly Kamluk, principal security researcher with Kaspersky Labu2019s Global Research and Analysis Team. u201cThis is unique and the first time weu2019ve seen that level of complexity from an advanced actor.u201d On Monday during a talk at the Security Analyst Summit, Kamluk called the module an ultimate cyberattack tool, a cornerstone of the so-called Equation group, a 15-year-old operation linked to Stuxnet and Flame by Kaspersky researchers. Equationu2019s cache of attacks, including several zero-day exploits, has been used for espionage against sensitive targets such as governments, energy companies, embassies, telecoms and many others primarily is Russia, Syria, Iran and Pakistan. The module, however, is rarely deployed, according to Kamluk. u201cOnly a very select list of victims receive this. This is one of the most rare modules I have seen because it is so valuable, so they donu2019t want to expose it,u201d Kamluk said. u201cItu2019s a precious plugin thatu2019s used only in specific cases with somebody very important.u201d Persistence is its main job, and the module does it well. Kamluk said it is likely still in use. u201cItu2019s extremely hard to detect. From the software level itu2019s impossible,u201d said Kamluk. u201cYou have to disassemble your PC to take out the hard drive and give it to an expert to dump the firmware. And then we think very few people in the world would be capable of analyzing, comparing and revealing the malicious code within that firmware. Itu2019s an extremely rare specialist in this area.u201d In a report about Equation, the module has two functions: reprogramming the HDD firmware with a custom payload; it also provides an API into hidden storage sectors of the hard drive. This not only gives the attackers eternal persistence that allows them to survive disk formatting and operating system reinstalls, but they also have undetectable persistent storage inside the hard drive. u201cThis module gives us a clear understanding of their capabilities,u201d Kamluk said. He explained that nls_933w.dll contains a driver that drops the malware; the driver is used to interact with the hard drive from the kernel level, Kamluk said. u201cItu2019s not that the code that was so sophisticated; it used certain sequences of ATA commands to interact with the hard drive, but the sophisticated part was not exposed. It was the [reprogrammed] firmware itself,u201d Kamluk said. u201cTo master writing the firmware, it takes years to do that. We just saw that the level of sophistication is high because of what theyu2019re capable of doing, but we donu2019t have the firmware itself.u201d Kamluk said that the Equation group is not necessarily exploiting a vulnerability in the traditional sense, but a weakness in the design of the hard drives and how they allow vendors to push firmware updates. u201cThey left the door open and it may have been open for many years. The trick is that you have to have the full description, full reference of what is the current firmware on the hard drive and how it works. You have to know how to properly write and interact with the equipment to be able to successfully deploy new code. This is extremely complicated and requires a lot of skills and internal knowledge.u201d Kamluk speculates the attackers likely had access to internal, proprietary manuals and documentation for each respective vendor. Likely these manuals were stolen, either by an insider or from a separate malware attack. u201cThey are not exploiting an error in the code. Itu2019s a flaw in the design,u201d Kamluk said. As Kaspersky researchers began looking at Equation, finding hundreds of files, all types of plug-ins, this particular module stood out because of the strings discovered that mention the varied hard drive vendors. u201cIt took months for us to analyze and figure out what this interaction is,u201d Kamluk said. u201cWe had to learn different ATA commands and how to write to different hardware manufacturers. These are proprietary algorithms and protocols of communication that we had to learn. Thatu2019s why it took months for us to understand what this module is doing.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36592d6cefc42b00293c1f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Massive, Decades-Long Cyberespionage Framework Uncovered", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/massive-decades-long-cyberespionage-framework-uncovered/111080/", "Date" : "February 16, 2015 , 2:02 pm", "Article" : "CANCUNu2013Researchers at Kaspersky Lab have uncovered a cyberespionage group that has been operating for at least 15 years and has worked with and supported the attackers behind Stuxnet, Flame and other highly sophisticated operations. The attackers, known as the Equation Group, used two of the zero days contained in Stuxnet before that worm employed them and have used a number of other infection methods, including interdicting physical media such as CDs and inserting their custom malware implants onto the discs. Some of the techniques the group has used are closely associated with tactics employed by the NSA, specifically the interdiction operations and the use of the LNK vulnerability exploit by Stuxnet. The Equation Group has a massive, flexible and intimidating arsenal at its disposal. Along with using several zero days in its operations, the attack crew also employs two discrete modules that enable them to reprogram the hard drive firmware on infected machines. This gives the attackers the ability to stay persistent on compromised computers indefinitely and create a hidden storage partition on the hard drive that is used to store stolen data. At the Security Analyst Summit here Monday, researchers at Kaspersky presented on the Equation Groupu2019s operations while publishing a new report that lays out the inner workings of the crewu2019s tools, tactics and target list. The victims include government agencies, energy companies, research institutions, embassies, telecoms, universities, media organizations and others. Countries targeted by this group include Russia, Syria, Iran, Pakistan, China, Yemen, Afghanistan, India but also US and UK, between and several others. Beginning in 2001, and possibly as early as 1996, the Equation Group began conducting highly targeted and complex exploitation and espionage operations against victims in countries around the world. The groupu2019s toolkit includes components for infection, a self-propagating worm that gathers data from air-gapped targets, a full-featured bootkit that maintains control of a compromised machine and a u201cvalidatoru201d module that determines whether infected PCs are interesting enough to install the full attack platform on. u201cWe consider this to be the next level of threats,u201d Costin Raiu, director of the Global Research and Analysis Team at Kaspersky, said in a presentation. Kaspersky researchers say that the connection between the Stuxnet and Flame group and the Equation Group are concrete and deep. u201cThere are solid links indicating that the Equation group has interacted with other powerful groups, such as the Stuxnet and Flame operatorsu2013generally from a position of superiority. The Equation group had access to zero-days before they were used by Stuxnet and Flame, and at some point they shared exploits with others,u201d the Kaspersky report says. Once a PC is compromised, the attackers install the EQUATIONDRUG attack platform, which is the main component from which further operations run. The platform includes a variety of modules and has an analog in another platform called GRAYFISH, which is an updated version of the attack framework. u201cBy default, a core set of modules is installed into the targetu2019s computer together with EQUATIONDRUG, giving attackers full control over the operating system. In cases when the basic features of the malware are not enough, EquationDrug supports adding new plugins to extend its functionality. We found more than 30 different plugins for EquationDrug,u201d the report says. u201cEquationDrugu2019s core modules, designed for deep hooking into the OS, do not contain a trusted digital signature and cannot run directly on modern operating systems. The code also contains a check whether the OS version is not newer than Windows XP/2003. Some of the plugins were originally designed for use on Windows 95/98/ME. If the target uses a modern operating system like Windows 7, the attackers use the TripleFantasy or GrayFish platforms.u201d GRAYFISH is the most highly evolved version of its attack infrastructure. The attackers began using this platform about seven years ago and have been improving it as they go. u201cGrayFish includes a highly sophisticated bootkit, which is more complex than any other weu2019ve ever seen before. This provides an indication of the highest class of developers behind its creation,u201d the Kaspersky researchers said. u201cWhen the computer starts, GrayFish hijacks the OS loading mechanisms by injecting its code into the boot record. This allows it to control the launching of Windows at each stage. In fact, after infection, the computer is not run by itself more: it is GrayFish that runs it step by step, making the necessary changes on the fly.u201d The trump card for the Equation Group attackers is their ability to inject an infected machineu2019s hard drive firmware. This module, known only by a cryptic name u2013 u201cnls_933w.dllu201d, essentially allows the attackers to reprogram the HDD or SSD firmware with a custom payload of their own creation. u201cAlthough the implementation of their malware systems is incredibly complex, surpassing even Regin in sophistication, there is one aspect of the EQUATION groupu2019s attack technologies that surpasses anything else we have ever seen before. This is the ability to infect the hard drive firmware,u201d the report says. u201cWe were able to recover two HDD firmware reprogramming modules from the EQUATIONDRUG and GRAYFISH platforms. The EQUATIONDRUG HDD firmware reprogramming module has version 3.0 while the GRAYFISH reprogramming module has version 4.0.1. These were compiled in 2010 and 2013, respectively, if we are to trust the PE timestamps.u201d The worm thatu2019s included with the Equation Groupu2019s toolkit is codenamed Fanny and provides a direct link to the Stuxnet group. The worm uses two of the zero days that later were used by Stuxnet, including the LNK file exploit. The Fanny worm spreads from infected machines via USB sticks, using the LNK file zero day, and its main purpose appears to be to reconnoiter and map air-gapped machines, PCs that arenu2019t connected to the Internet or a network. u201cFirst, when an USB stick is infected, Fanny creates a hidden storage area on the stick. If it infects a computer without an internet connection, it will collect basic system information and save it into the hidden area of the stick. Later, which a stick containing hidden information is plugged into a computer infected by Fanny having an Internet connection, the data will be scooped from the hidden area and sent to the C&C. If the attackers want to run commands on the air-gapped networks, they can save these commands in the hidden area of the USB stick. When the stick is plugged into the air- gapped computer, Fanny will recognize the commands and execute them. This effectively allowed the Equation group to run commands inside air-gapped networks through the use of infected USB sticks, as well as map the network infrastructure of such networks,u201d the report says. The Equation Group has been seen using at least seven vulnerabilities in various applications, four of which were zero days when the group began using them. One of the exploits the group used was for a vulnerability in Internet Explorer that had been used first by the Google Aurora attackers in 2009. u201cThe EQUATION group captured their exploit and repurposed it to target government users in Afghanistan,u201d the report says. As sophisticated and comprehensive as this groupu2019s toolset is, perhaps the most interesting tactic they employ is interdicting CDs bound for specific targets and inserting their malware. In one case, the attackers sent attendees of a scientific conference a CD that contained the proceedings from the meeting. Not all of the participants received the malware-infected discs. u201cThe CD-ROM uses u2018autorun.infu2019 to execute an installer that will first attempt to escalate privileges using two known EQUATION group exploits. Next, it attempts to run the groupu2019s DOUBLEFANTASY implant and install it into the victimu2019s machine. The exact method by which these CDs were interdicted is unknown. However, we do not believe the conference organizers did this on purpose, considering the super-rare DOUBLEFANTASY malware, together with its installer with two zero-day exploits, doesnu2019t end up on a CD by accident,u201d the report says. Another incident included an installation CD for Oracle software that included a Trojan dropper for the Equation Groupu2019s malware. This is a tactic that, through the Edward Snowden documents, has been attributed to operations conducted in the past by the National Security Agency. Kaspersky researchers have sinkholed several of the C&C domains used by the Equation Group attackers and have so far counted more than 500 victims, but the total over the lifetime of the campaign is likely far higher. The C&C infrastructure includes hundreds of domains in a number of countries, including the United States, the UK, Italy and Germany. Nearly all of the C&C domains and servers were shut down by the attackers last year, but some were still active as late as last month. But Raiu said that there are no samples of the Equation Groupu2019s tools from 2014. u201cThe scariest thing about them is that we donu2019t have any samples from 2014. So somewhere in 2013 these guys went off the radar,u201d he said. u201cWe have no idea what they did in 2014, which is very, very scary.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36598e6cefc42b00293c93" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Researchers Link Regin to Malware Disclosed in Recent Snowden Documents", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/researchers-link-regin-to-malware-disclosed-in-recent-snowden-documents/110667/", "Date" : "January 27, 2015 , 6:00 am", "Article" : "Researchers at Kaspersky Lab have discovered shared code and functionality between the Regin malware platform and a similar platform described in a newly disclosed set of Edward Snowden documents 10 days ago by Germanyu2019s Der Spiegel. The link, found in a keylogger called QWERTY allegedly used by the so-called Five Eyes, leads them to conclude that the developers of each platform are either the same, or work closely together. u201cConsidering the extreme complexity of the Regin platform and little chance that it can be duplicated by somebody without having access to its source codes, we conclude the QWERTY malware developers and the Regin developers are the same or working together,u201d wrote Kaspersky Lab researchers Costin Raiu and Igor Soumenkov today in a published report on the Securelist blog. The Der Spiegel article describes how the U.S National Security Agency, the U.K.u2019s GCHQ and the rest of the Five Eyes are allegedly developing offensive Internet-based capabilities to attack computer networks managing the critical infrastructure of its adversaries. The new Snowden documents, disclosed by Laura Poitras and a collection of eight security and privacy technologists and experts, also include an overview of a malware platform called WARRIORPRIDE. Within WARRIORPRIDE is QWERTY, a module that logs keystrokes from compromised Windows machines; Der Spiegel said the malware is likely several years old and has likely already been replaced. The magazine released QWERTY to the public upon publication of its article. It describes QWERTYu2019s structure as u201csimpleu201d and said there is a core driver called QWERTYKM that interacts with the Windows keyboard manager, and a QWERTYLP library which logs and stores keystrokes for analysis. Der Spiegel said after its examination of binary files, various components and libraries itu2019s likely thereu2019s a connection between WARRIORPRIDE and the Australian Signals Directorate, an Aussie government intelligence agency. Kaspersky researchers Raiu and Soumenkov said after analysis that the QWERTY malware is identical in functionality to a particular Regin plugin. Raiu and Soumenkov said researchers took apart the QWERTY module and found three binaries and configuration files. One binary called 20123.sys is a kernel mode component of the QWERTY keylogger that was built from source code also found in a Regin module, a plug-in called 50251. In a report published today, side-by-side comparisons of the respective source code shows they are close to identical, sharing large chunks of code. The researchers said that one piece of code in particular references plug-ins from the Regin platform and is used in QWERTY and its Regin counterpart. It addresses a Regin plug-in, called 50225, that is responsible for kernel-mode hooking, the Kaspersky researchers said. u201cThis is solid proof that the QWERTY plugin can only operate as part of the Regin platform, leveraging the kernel hooking functions from plugin 50225,u201d Raiu and Soumenkov wrote. u201cAs an additional proof that both modules use the same software platform, we can take a look at functions exported by ordinal 1 of both modules,u201d they also wrote. u201cThey contain the startup code that can be found in any other plugin of Regin, and include the actual plugin number that is registered within the platform to allow further addressing of the module. This only makes sense if the modules are used with the Regin platform orchestrator.u201d The Regin malware platform was disclosed in late November by Kaspersky Lab and it was quickly labeled one of the most advanced espionage malware platforms ever studied, surpassing even Stuxnet and Flame in complexity. The platform is used to steal secrets from government agencies, research institutions, banks and can even be tweaked to attack GSM telecom network operators. Last week, Kaspersky researchers published another Regin report, this one describing two standalone modules used for lateral movement and to establish a backdoor in order to move data off compromised machines. The modules, named Hopscotch and Legspin, have also likely been retired given they were developed perhaps more than a decade ago. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659956cefc42b00293c9d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Details on Regin Malware Modules Disclosed", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/details-on-regin-malware-modules-disclosed/110587/", "Date" : "January 22, 2015 , 11:55 am", "Article" : "The Regin malware platform used to steal secrets from government agencies, banks and GSM network operators caught the attention of security experts who called it one of the most advanced attack platforms that has been studied, surpassing Flame, Duqu, even Stuxnet. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab said Regin could be tuned to attack large organizations or even individuals, pointing out that noted cryptographer Jean Jacques Quisquater was one of its first public victims. Today, details about a pair of Regin modulesu00a0were released by Kasperskyu2019s Global Research and Analysis Team, one module used for lateral movement, while the other establishes a backdoor in order to move data off compromised machines. The researchers, Costin Raiu and Igor Soumenkov, concede that the modules, named Hopscotch and Legspin, have likely been put out of commission by those responsible for Regin and replaced by new modules. Attribution, meanwhile, remains another mystery to Regin, though some were quick to pin either the U.S. National Security Agency, or the U.K.u2019s GCHQ as the perpetrators. Regin was revealed in November by Kaspersky Lab, which said it has been detected on Windows computers belonging to 27 organizations in 14 countries, most of those in Asia and the Middle East. The GSM (Global System for Mobile Communication) characteristic to Regin is a relatively unique feature to APT-style attacks, and particularly concerning given the lax security used inu00a0mobile communication protocols. The attackers were able to steal credentials from an internal GSM Base Station Controller belonging to a large telecom operator that gave them access to GSM cells in that particular network, Kaspersky Lab said. Base Station Controllers manage calls as they move along a mobile network, allocating resources and mobile data transfers. With this kind of access, the attackers knew information about calls processed by particular cells, and were able to redirect calls, activate other cells and steal data. u201cAt the present time, the attackers behind Regin are the only ones known to have been capable of doing such operations,u201d Raiu said at the time. Todayu2019s report provides an in depth analysis of two of four modules belonging to Regin (hashes, compile dates, file type and size are listed on the Securelist blog). u201cDespite the overall sophistication (and sometimes even over-engineering) of the Regin platform, these tools are simple, straightforward and provide interactive console interfaces for Regin operators,u201d the researchers wrote. u201cWhat makes them interesting is the fact they were developed many years ago and could even have been created before the Regin platform itself.u201d Hopscotch, for example, is a standalone tool used by the attackers for lateral movement. It relies on stolen credentials to authenticate itself on remote computers, and contains no exploits, Raiu and Soumenkov said. u201cThe module receives the name of the target machine and an optional remote file name from the standard input (operator),u201d Raiu and Soumenkov wrote. The attackers can choose from several options at the time of execution and the tool provides human-readable responses and suggestions for possible input.u201d The module creates a new service to launch a payload extracted from a remote server using a two-way encrypted channel, one that forwards input from the operator to the payload, the other writes data from payload to the standard output. The executable injects itself into a new process for persistence and the remote operator can interact with the module. u201cOnce completed, the tool deletes the remote file and closes the authenticated sessions, effectively removing all the traces of the operation,u201d Raiu and Soumenkov wrote. Legspin is another standalone module; this one is a command line utility for computer administration, and operates as a backdoor. u201cIt is worth noting that the program has full console support and features colored output when run locally,u201d Raiu and Soumenkov wrote. u201cIt can even distinguish between consoles that support Windows Console API and TTY-compatible terminals that accept escape codes for coloring.u201d There are clues within the module that hint it was developed around 2002-2003; it also uses legacy API functions such as NetBIOS, which was deprecated from Windows with the launch of Vista. This module gives the remote attacker an interactive command prompt, and a long list of commands at their disposal, including the ability to retrieve and upload files, connect to a remote share, retrieve server configuration data, create processes, much more. u201cItu2019s worth pointing that not all Regin deployments contain the Legspin module; in most cases, the attackers manage their victims through other Regin platform functions,u201d the researchers wrote. u201cThis means that Legspin could have been used independently from the Regin platform, as a simple backdoor together with an input/output wrapper.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659a46cefc42b00293cb6" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Duqu 2.0 Attackers Used Stolen Foxconn Certificate, Signed Driver", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/duqu-2-0-attackers-used-stolen-foxconn-certificate-to-sign-driver/113315/", "Date" : "June 15, 2015 , 11:21 am", "Article" : "The attackers behind the recently disclosed Duqu 2.0 APT have used stolen digital certificates to help sneak their malware past security defenses, and one of the certificates used in the attacks was issued to Foxconn, the Chinese company that manufactures products for Apple, BlackBerry, Dell, and many other companies. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab, who discovered the Duqu 2.0 campaign, said Monday that the certificate was used as part of their technique to get malicious traffic in and out of compromised networks. Because the Duqu 2.0 malware doesnu2019t have a typical persistent mechanism, the attackers used a variety of methods for ensuring they could access target systems as needed. One of those techniques involves the attackers installing malicious drivers on network gear, including firewalls, and then using them to redirect traffic to a specific set of ports. u201cThe attackers created an unusual persistence module which they deploy on compromised networks. It serves a double function u2013 it also supports a hidden C&C communication scheme. This organization-level persistence is achieved by a driver that is installed as a normal system service. On 64-bit systems, this implies a strict requirement for an Authenticode digital signature. We have seen two such persistence drivers deployed in the course of attacks,u201d an analysis from the Kaspersky researchers says. The use of stolen certificates to sign malware is nothing new. Malware authors have been using this technique for several years and it has been seen in a number of high-level attacks, including Stuxnet. The tacticu00a0allows the attackers to get their malware past many kinds of security software, which typically treat signed files as benign. The certificate used by the Duqu 2.0 attackers was issued to Foxconn, formally known as Honu00a0Hai Precision Industry, by VeriSign on Aug. 25, 2012. It was used to sign the malicious driver on Feb. 19, but the Kaspersky researchers said they donu2019t believe that Foxconn itself has been compromised. The way that the certificates are used by the Duqu attackers is somewhat unusual. Rather than using one certificate for multiple modules or drivers, the group seems to have access to a sizable cache of stolen certificates and use each one just once. u201cAnother interesting observation is that besides these Duqu drivers we havenu2019t uncovered any other malware signed with the same certificates. That rules out the possibility that the certificates have been leaked and are being used by multiple groups. It also seems to indicate the Duqu attackers are the only ones who have access to these certificates, which strengthens the theory they hacked the hardware manufacturers in order to get these certificates,u201d the Kaspersky analysis says. u201cFinally, itu2019s interesting that the Duqu attackers are also careful enough not to use same digital certificate twice. This is something we have seen with Duqu from both 2011 and 2015. If thatu2019s true, then it means that the attackers might have enough alternative stolen digital certificates from other manufacturers that are ready to be used during the next targeted attack. This would be extremely alarming because it effectively undermines trust in digital certificates.u201d u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659b96cefc42b00293cdc" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Cost of Doing APT Business Dropping", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cost-of-doing-apt-business-dropping/104093/", "Date" : "February 6, 2014 , 11:33 am", "Article" : "PUNTA CANAu2013The term APT often is used as a generic descriptor for any groupu2013typically presumed to be government-backed and heavily financedu2013that is seen attacking high-value targets such as government agencies, critical infrastructure and financial systems. But the range of targets APT groups are going after is widening, as are the levels of talent and financing these groups possess. One reason for this evolution is that the amount of money thatu2019s required to get into the APT game is no longer prohibitive. Whereas once an aspiring APT crew might need hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars in backing, depending upon their target list and timeline, now smaller, more agile groups can get in on the action for a fraction of that cost. u201cThe cost of entry for APT is decreasing,u201d said Costin Raiu, head of the Global Research and Analysis Team at Kaspersky Lab, in a talk on the threat landscape at the companyu2019s Industry Analyst Summit here Thursday. u201cWeu2019re going to see more surgical strikes and critical infrastructure attacks.u201d One example of this phenomenon is the Icefog group. Discovered last fall, the Icefog attackers targeted a variety of organizations and government agencies in Japan and South Korea and researchers believe the group comprised a small number of highly skilled operators who went after select targets very quickly. Raiu estimated that the Icefog campaign probably required an investment of no more than $10,000. By comparison, he said that the NetTraveler campaign likely cost about $500,000, while Stuxnet was in the range of $100 million. u201cIcefog is special because it indicates a new trend of cyber mercenaries, maybe five to ten people that are highly skilled,u201d Raiu said. u201cThey knew what documents they wanted to steal from each machine and they spent only a few minutes on each machine.u201d The massive investment required to create, test and deploy the infamous Stuxnet malware, Raiu said, should not be seen as the ceiling for such APT tools. u201cIf youu2019re thinking thatu2019s a lot of money, itu2019s not,u201d Raiu said. u201cItu2019s the cost of several missiles.u201d Missiles, of course, can only be used once; APT tools can be deployed any number of times, and by a wide variety of attackers. Itu2019s often the case that tools written by a high-level group will eventually trickle down through the ranks and be used by less-skilled attackers as time passes. Thatu2019s part of the democratization process in the attacker community and itu2019s only going to accelerate. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a086cefc42b00293d51" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Model Predicts Optimal Timing for Targeted Attacks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/model-predicts-optimal-timing-for-targeted-attacks1/103665/", "Date" : "January 16, 2014 , 7:56 am", "Article" : "Security researchers from the Ford School of Public Policy at the University of Michigan have published a mathematical model they said will produce the proper timing for the delivery of offensive cyberweapons. Defenders can also make use of the model to understand attackers and when an targeted attack might occur. u201cA simple mathematical model is offered to clarify how the timing of such a choice can depend on the stakes involved in the present situation, as well as the characteristics of the resource for exploitation,u201d wrote Robert Axelrod and Rumen Iliev in a paper called u201cTiming of Cyber Conflict.u201d The two researchers used the Stuxnet and Saudi Aramco attacks, as well as the persistent targeted attacks attributed to the Chinese government, as a baseline for their analysis of cyber conflicts. The researchersu2019 goal is to mitigate the harm destructive cyberattacks can do and understand their capabilities. The experiment conducted by the researchers is done so from the point of view of the attacker in order to make a best guess as to the conditions and timing under which a potentially destructive attack is launched. The model takes into account the fact that a zero-day launched today will likely be less effective at a later date, especially once an attack is discovered and mitigations are put in place. u201cThe heart of our model is the trade-off between waiting until the stakes of the present situation are high enough to warrant the use of the resource, but not waiting so long that the vulnerability the resource exploits might be discovered and patched even if the resource is never used,u201d Axelrod and Iliev wrote. The model makes a number of assumptions about whatu2019s at stake in a particular conflict, be it an all-out war, or an espionage engagement for trade or military secrets. The stakes change relevant to time, but the model focuses only on the current environment. It also looks at resource, or weapon, characteristics and its sustainability based on its stealth and persistence abilities. A benchmark for stealth used in the study is the average duration of a zero-day attack, 312 days, according to Leyla Bilge and Tudor Dumitras, while a persistence benchmark is that within three to five years, only three percent to five percent of vulnerabilities in Chrome and Firefox are rediscovered. The targetu2019s patching practices also impact the stealth and persistence of an attack, the researchers said. u201cBecause stakes are not under your control, your best policy is to wait until the stakes are high enough to risk losing the resource because of its limited stealth,u201d they wrote. In short, an attacker will want to use his available resources often, but only when the stakes are their highest. Another assumption made in the model is the value of a weapon, which is dependent on its persistence and stealth, the researchers said. Within their paper, the researchers present an equation that helps an attacker or defender determine the value of a resource, which helps determine how to best use it based on particular thresholds. The researchers concluded that in situations where the stakes are constant, such as the payoff for stealing payment card data, a cyberweapon should be used quickly and often. For high stakes events, attackers and defenders need to evaluate three factors before deciding how long to wait to launch an attack: low stealth, high persistence and large stakes, the researchers wrote. For a comparison, the researchers looked at the Stuxnet worm, which they said likely had low persistence because it relied on multiple zero-day exploits to get the job done. This meant the attackers had to quickly use their malware, therefore, stealth was important. Stuxnet accomplished this in spades, lasting 17 months inside the Natanz network before it was detected. As for the stakes, they were high for the attackers, whose goal was to derail Iranu2019s nuclear program. Another factor to consider is the legitimate market for zero-day exploits and competing vendor bounties for mitigation bypass attacks. The researchers go against the grain of thinking that says the market would be saturated with new exploits, but the pool of undiscovered vulnerabilities is deep. u201cWith new versions of commonly used software being introduced at a high rate to patch recently discovered vulnerabilities and to add new features, the pool of zero-day exploits waiting to be discovered is ever renewable,u201d the researchers wrote. Turning their model on the zero-day market, the researchers concluded that the more effort that goes into finding zero days, persistence will go down because a resource is likely to also be discovered by others and possible sold before it is used. Lower prices will be instituted because supply will be greater and less persistence means weapons are worth less, they said. u201cThe implications of our model are easy to summarize: Stealth and Persistence are both desirable properties of a resource, and increase its Value,u201d they wrote. u201cHowever, they have opposite effects on the best time to use the resource. Persistence leads to more patience, meaning the stakes need to meet u00a0u00a0a higher Threshold before the resource is worth using.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a226cefc42b00293d85" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Key Stuxnet LNK Spreading Mechanism Stops Working", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/key-stuxnet-lnk-spreading-mechanism-stops-working-062512/76730/", "Date" : "June 25, 2012 , 4:20 pm", "Article" : "One of the key infection methods for the Stuxnet worm was hard-coded to stop working on June 24, removing one of its techniques for propagation. Researchers say that the date, which is found in coded form in the wormu2019s instructions, is nearly three years to the day from the date that the first version of Stuxnet was seeded. Stuxnet contains several different methods for spreading and infecting new machines. One of those infection methods is through the use of LNK files that are copied to a USB storage device. This was among the first sections of Stuxnet to be identified and dissected by researchers. u201cThere are currently three known variants ofu00a0Stuxnetu00a0u2013 which were all seeded in waves, on different dates. The first known variant was seeded on June 23rd, 2009 at 4:40am GMT. The next wave took place on June 28th and then on July 7th. So, on June 24th, 2012, we were roughly three years since the initial deployment of the worm that squirmed through carefully selected Iranian organizations,u201d Costin Raiu of Kaspersky Lab wrote in an analysis of the drop-dead date for the LNK mechanism. One other bit of weirdness involved in this episode is that thereu2019s another date thatu2019s hard-coded into the Duqu code. That date, June 24, 1982, is the day that a British Airways flight from London to Auckland, New Zealand, flew through an ash cloud from a volcanic eruption and lost all four of its engines, eventually making an emergency landing in Jakarta. What that incident has to do with a piece of malware designed almost 30 years later is unclear. u201cOf course, nobody outside of the project can say for sure why Stuxnet stopped spreading exactly 30 years from this incident, or why the date is also hardcoded in the Duqu decryption subroutine. In addition to June 24th, the Stuxnet MS10-061 exploit stopped working on June 1st, 2011. Moreover, the MS08-067 exploit checks dates before January 2030. Nevertheless, all these checks probably indicate that the attackers were planning to have it long updated by June 1st, 2011 and retired or replaced by June 24th, 2012,u201d Raiu said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a2b6cefc42b00293d94" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Flame C&C Server Analysis Reveals New Malware in the Wild", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/flame-cc-server-analysis-reveals-new-malware-wild-091712/77015/", "Date" : "September 17, 2012 , 1:35 pm", "Article" : "Forensic analysis of a number of Flame malware toolkit command-and-control servers revealed an additional three unidentified pieces of malicious code are under the control of the attackers, including one in the wild.u00a0Researchers at Kaspersky Lab, Symantec, CERT-Bund/BSI, and the International Telecommunication Unionu2019s Impact Alliance said today they also pinpointed the first work done on the Flame espionage campaign was carried out in 2006, much earlier than the 2010 date development was initially thought to have begun. In June, Kaspersky Lab reported theyu2019d found a definitive connection between Flame and Stuxnet; researchers said the unidentified malware reported today has no connection to either Stuxnet or Gauss, another nation-state threat discovered by Kaspersky last month. Analysis also determined at least four programmers are on the team behind the attacks, each with varying levels of expertise; additional confirmation was also made that sophisticated cryptography is being used to encrypt data as itu2019s sent between the victimsu2019 machines and the C&C servers. The C&C code also handles three communications protocols, and researchers saw evidence of a fourth under development. Alexander Gostev, chief security expert at Kaspersky Lab, called the discoveries examples of cyber espionage conducted on a massive scale. The attackers, researchers said, spent significant resources covering their tracks and disguising the project from hosting providers. The C&C platform used by Flame was made to look like an ordinary content management system and unlike most botnet control panels that rely on labels such as malware command and infection, these attackers used common terms such as data, download, client, news, blog, ads and more. Also, the C&C panel was not set up to send commands to the victim, instead, the attackers uploaded special tar.gz archives and scripts were processed by the server that extracted the archive contents. The script also encrypted all the files received from a zombie machine using Blowfish, and the Blowfish key is then encrypted. No one other than the attacker would have the private key to decrypt the files. Communication was carried out over four protocols: OldProtocol; OldProtocolE; SignupProtocol; and RedProtocol (under development). Four different types of malware clients were revealed: SP, SPE, FL and IP. FL, researchers determined, is Flame and concluded the three remaining client names are similar malware tools. The researchers used a sinkholeu2013the networking equivalent of a honeypotu2013to catalog connections into two categories, those coming from Flame and another set from the SPE malware client, confirming that one in the wild as well. For one week, starting March 25, 5,377 unique IP addresses connected to a C&C server owned by a European country with data centers in another EU country. More than 3,700 connections were made from Iran, another 1,280 from the Sudan. Researchers deduced this was a targeted campaign against these two nations since no large amount of activity had been detected originating from the Sudan in particular before. Less than 100 connections were made from each of the United States, Germany, India, Pakistan, the United Kingdom and several other countries, most from the Middle East. The server had limited functionality and infected machines supported few commands, including some that would fetch updates and new Flame modules, some storage commands and some directory commands. Researchers also found that the four respective developers left their nicknames and timestamps in the scripts; the earliest timestamp being Dec. 3, 2006. One developer in particular worked on a majority of the files and seemed to be the more experienced of the four. u201cHe coded some very smart patches and implemented complex logics; in addition, he seems to be a master of encryption algorithms. We think [developer] was most likely a team lead,u201d the report said. The C&C server was running a 64-bit version of the Debian operation system; researchers got a server image which was an OpenVZ file-system container. Most of the code was written in PHP; some Python and bash was used. All data was stored on a MySQL database with InnoDB tables. The Web server was Apache 2.x with self-signed certificates. The last modification to the C&C server was made May 18. The forensics also found automated scripts that would wipe log files and disable further logging. Researchers also found the chkconfig tool present, a Debian version of a popular Red Hat tool RedHatCentOS found in Duqu. A shred tool also used by the Duqu team was used here to wipe information. Other scripts were found that downloaded new data and removed old data every 30 minutes. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a356cefc42b00293da3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Syrian Dissidents Hit By Another Wave of Targeted Attacks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/syrian-dissidents-hit-another-wave-targeted-attacks-062012/76714/", "Date" : "June 20, 2012 , 2:15 pm", "Article" : "One of the attackers who has been targeting Syrian anti-government activists with malware and surveillance tools has returned and upped the ante with the use of the BlackShades RAT, a remote-access tool that gives him the ability to spy on victims machines through keylogging and screenshots. The original attacks against Syrian activists, who are working against the governmentu2019s months-long violent crackdown, were using another RAT known as Xtreme RAT, with similar capabilities. That malware was being spread through a couple of different targeted attacks, including one in which activists were directed to YouTube videos and their account credentials were then stolen when they logged in to leave comments. That attack continued with the installation of the RAT, giving the attacker surreptitious access to the victimsu2019 machines, enabling him to monitor their activities online. Now, researchers say that at least one attacker who is known to be involved in these targeted attacks also is using the BlackShades RAT in a new set of attacks. The new attack is being run by spreading a malicious link to dissidents. When a victim clicks on the link, it takes him to a site that downloads a file calledu00a0u00a0u201cnew_new .pif.u201d That file then goes through a long infection routine that includes the installation of several files. One of the files thatu2019s installed is a keylogger and the malware also creates a number of registry keys that ensure persistence on the machine, according to an analysis of the attack by researchers at the EFF and Citizen Lab.u00a0 The malware has a relatively weak encryption routine that enables the binary to be decrypted with a key thatu2019s included in the file.u00a0 u201cVSCover.exe contains u201cLibrau201d (30209 bytes) as a .NET resource which is encrypted using a weak method. Decryption is possible using the key stored internally. Once decrypted, it is loaded as a .NET assembly and the Piept() function is called,u201d Morgan Marquis-Boire and Seth Hardy of Citizen Lab wrote in their analysis. After the decryption routine, the binary winds up being the BlackShades RAT. The malware then connects via TCP port 4444 to an IP address that is controlled by the Syrian Telecommunications Establishment. Thatu2019s the same address space that the attacker behind the fake YouTube attacks was using, and Citizen Lab said that in March, both pieces of malware were using the same C&C IP address. u201cThis evidence, combined with the similar naming convention, suggest that these attacks have been performed by the same actor. This malware package (new_new .pif) is not well detected at this time, but it is detected byu00a0someu00a0anti-virus vendors. This version of the Black Shades RAT implant (VSCover.exe), is at the time of analysis (Jun 16th 2012)u00a0undetected,u201d Hardy and Marquis-Boire wrote. The last few weeks have seen a lot of news about targeted attacks from various governments, in the form of tools such as Flame, Stuxnet and Duqu, against other nations. Those attacks are the kind of operations that are sort of expected from nations against their enemies. But the kind of attacks that are hitting Syrian dissidents, as well as activists in other nations, may be the more insidious and troublesome ones for regular citizens.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a3e6cefc42b00293daf" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stolen Government Certificate Used to Sign Malware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stolen-government-certificate-used-sign-malware-111411/75890/", "Date" : "November 14, 2011 , 5:10 pm", "Article" : "F-Secure researchers claim that malware spreading via malicious PDF files is signed with a valid certificate stolen from the Government of Malaysia, in just the latest evidence that scammers are using gaps in the security of digital certificates to help spread malicious code. The malware,identified by F-Secure as a Trojan horse program dubbed Agent.DTIW, was detected in a signed Adobe PDF file by the companyu2019s virus researchers recently. The malicious PDF was signed using a valid digital certificate for mardi.gov.my, the Agricultural Research and Development Institute of the Government of Malaysia. According to F-Secure, the Government of Malaysia confirmed that the certificate was legitimate and had been stolen u201cquite some time ago.u201d Valid digital certificates can be used to authenticate malicious programs and bypass operating system warnings designed to appear when users attempt to run the application. According to F-Secure, the Agent.DTIW malware exploits a known vulnerability in Adobe Reader 8 to gain a foothold on a vulnerable system, then downloads additional malicious modules from a server at the domain worldnewsmagazines.org. Some of those malicious objects were also found to be signed, though using a certificate from a commercial Web site. Stolen digital certificates are a more and more common element of malicious software, security researchers say.u00a0The Stuxnet malware famously used stolen digital certificates to bypass security protections on systems it infected. (). Recent months have also seen attacks leveraged at certificate authorities and their affiliates, presumably by attackers who want the ability to generate valid certificates for high profile domains that might later be used in man-in-the-middle type attacks. Certificates like the Dutch firms Diginotar and KPN were compromised in such attacks, as was the CA Comodo. Certificate authorities and forged digital certificates have figured prominently in the news recently. You can read more on F-Secureu2019s blog here.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a4d6cefc42b00293dc9" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "What Have We Learned: Flame Malware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/what-have-we-learned-flame-malware-061512/76701/", "Date" : "June 15, 2012 , 7:46 pm", "Article" : "When the news about the Flame malware first broke several weeks ago, people from all parts of the security community, political world and elsewhere quickly began trying to figure out what the significance of the tool was and whether it represented anything new. That was difficult at the time, given the lack of data on its exact capabilities and parentage. But, with the information available to us now, it seems safe to say that Flame has changed the way that many people think about the threat landscape and the way attackers work, not just in the security community but in the political arena, as well. What and how you think about Flame and its younger sibling Stuxnet depends largely on your position in security or political community as well as your history with these kinds of attack tools in the past. By that I donu2019t mean whether youu2019ve been hit by Stuxnet or Duqu, but rather how you experienced the drama, hype and reality surrounding those attacks. For some people, the emergence of Stuxnet was the first time they saw hard evidence of a professional attack team with nation-level resources going after high-value targets. The target in that case was the Iranian Natanz nuclear facility, which immediately raised speculation that either Israel or the United States was behind the attack. The same was true of the sandstorm surrounding the discovery of Duqu last year. Duqu had a larger and more diffuse target list, and it wasnu2019t immediately obvious what itu2019s purpose was or who its creators might be. But as the research progressed, experts eventually came to the conclusion that Stuxnet and Duqu were created by the same team. That added an extra layer of intrigue to the whole situation, providing more evidence that there was a seriously skilled attack team at work somewhere, possibly inside the U.S. For some people, this made perfect sense. Of course the U.S. and/or Israel is attacking Iran and Syria and other countries with these kinds of weapons. As an addition to traditional intelligence tactics, an attack like Stuxnet would be a natural. Itu2019s virtually impossible to attribute to anyone definitively and itu2019s very low risk for the attacker. No people are in harmu2019s way and the politicians and diplomats have the safety of deniability. For others, Stuxnet and Duqu were simply two more pieces of malware, albeit ones that happened to show up inside some interesting networks. For the people in this category, cyberwar and the idea of governments attacking each other with sophisticated tools built by teams of expert hackers were pure fiction, the stuff of B movies. This position became largely untenable with the revelation that Stuxnet used several zero-day exploits and the that whomever had built the two tools had likely invested several million dollars in their development. Clearly, this team was not playing around. Then there was the third group, the people who had direct experience with these kinds of attacks and tools, either on the offensive or defensive side. The kind of people who know what it takes to build a toolkit such as Stuxnet and what the use of five high-value vulnerabilities says about the makeup and resources of the team doing the development. These people mostly remained quiet about Stuxnet and Duqu, preferring to watch and learn. But things changed rather quickly when word leaked out via a David Sanger piece in The New York Times that the U.S. and Israel actually did build Stuxnet. Then researchers said that some of the same components found in Stuxnet also are present in Flame, and that the same attackers likely built both tools. Flame is actually the oldest of the three pieces of malware and has been in circulation for at least five years, meaning that the team behind them has been operating for a long time.u00a0 So what have we learned from all of this? First, we now know that there are a number of highly skilled offensive researchers and exploit writers out there, and not all of them work for Dave Aitel. Some of them work for the U.S. government and we have to assume that some of them work for the governments of Israel, the U.K., Russia, China and other countries, as well.u00a0 Second, weu2019ve learned that at least one of these teams is committing serious resources to its offensive program. One of the tactics used by Flame to spread is the use of a forged Microsoft certificate to set up a fake Windows Update proxy that installed the malware on victimsu2019 machines. The attackers were able to generate the forged certificate in part through the use of an MD5 hash collision, a difficult attack thatu2019s very expensive to execute, both in terms of money and resources. An analysis of the hash collision by Alex Sotirov of Trail of Bits, a researcher who helped develop the technique for this collision several years ago, showed that the team behind Flame probably spent between $200,000 and $2 million to generate the hash collision. u201cUsing our forensic tool, we have indeed verified that a chosen-prefix collision attack against MD5 has been used for Flame. More interestingly, the results have shown that not our published chosen-prefix collision attack was used, but an entirely new and unknown variant. Therefore it is not unreasonable to assume that the particular chosen-prefix collision attack variant underlying Flame had already been in development before June 2009. This has led to our conclusion that the design of Flame is partly based on world-class cryptanalysis,u201d Marc Stevens, a Dutch academic cryptanalyst who worked on the 2008 hash collision with Sotirov, said in analysis of the Flame technique. In other words, this is not a lark. And third, we have (hopefully) learned to take a little time to think and consider before making grand pronouncements about future attacks. Things are not always what they seem and sometimes the Internet is wrong. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a4d6cefc42b00293dca" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Toolkit Able to Track and Trace Duqu Worm", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-toolkit-able-track-and-trace-duqu-worm-111011/75879/", "Date" : "November 10, 2011 , 4:17 pm", "Article" : "The Hungarian research facility that helped discover Duqu, the much-blogged about Trojan, has now released an open-source toolkit that can be used to help detect traces and instances of the worm. The Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySys) at the Budapest University of Technology and Economics developed the Duqu Detector Toolkit v1.01 to be used on computers and networks where the malware may have already been removed from the system. Duqu u2013 a cousin of the Stuxnet worm that infected uranium enrichment facilities in Iran, famously had a hard-coded 36 day lifespan. But ystems may still retain certain Duqu files even after the virus has deactivated itself.By focusing on what they refer to as u201csuspicious files,u201d the toolkit can u201cdetect new, modified versions of the Duqu threat,u201d CrySys said.u00a0 Like other toolkits, CrySys claims the tool could still generate false positives and therefore encourages a professional looks over the log files of each test. As Threatpost previously reported, users can be infected with Duqu after opening a particular Word document that exploits a flaw in Windowsu2019 Win32k TrueType font parsing engine and lead to remote code execution. Microsoft has maintained theyu2019re working on a patch for the bug but in the meantime, released a workaround for the kernel flaw late last week. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a566cefc42b00293dd6" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Honeynet Project Launches u2018Ghostu2019 To Snare USB Malware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/honeynet-project-launches-ghost-snare-usb-malware-061412/76692/", "Date" : "June 14, 2012 , 3:06 pm", "Article" : "The Honeynet Project launched a new project Thursday that is designed to snare malware that spreads by infecting removable USB (universal serial bus) storage drives, citing the increased reliance of malicious programs on portable drives to move from computer to computer. The ghost-usb-honeypot uses software to emulate portable USB flash drives on Windows systems that are exposed to malicious software circulating on the Internet. Researchers hope to be able to use the emulated drives to spot malware that copies itself to the virtual flash drives. The Honeynet Project is a non-profit security research organization that collects and analze malware in the wild using a wide range of open source security tools. Honeypots are machines that are set up in order to attract malware and hackers for the purpose of studying their behavior. The ghost-usb-honeypot project stems from research conducted by Sebastian Poeplau, a student at Bonn University in Germany. Poeplau first presented the results of work he and others conducted at the University of Bonnu2019s Institute of Computer Science at a Honeynet Project conference in San Francisco in March. Poeplau said that propagation via USB drives is increasingly common, as malware authors look for ways to breach machines or networks that are u201cair-gapped,u201d or not accessible from other networks. Employees working on such air gapped networks still need to transfer data back and forth, and typically use USB drives to do so. The Stuxnet worm famously spread via USB drive, as did the recently discovered Flame malware.u00a0 Most honeypot installations to date have focused on malware that spreads by exploiting vulnerable network services or client software. However, nobody has previously attempted to capture and study malware that spreads by USB drives, Poeplau said in a presentation on the project in March. Ghostdrive is a virtual USB drive thatu2019s implemented using a Windows kernel mode driver that hooks Windows at the level of the disk class driver (disk.sys). A virtual bus driver is used to register the virtual driver, emulating the act of u201cplugging inu201d a removable device in the virtual Windows instance. Any information written to the virtual device is copied to a binary image file. In a demonstration, Poeplau infected a virtual Windows instance with the Conficker malware, then loaded a virtual USB drive and observed Conficker infecting the drive. He says that companies could use the free Ghostdrive tool to help monitor USB infections across their organization. In addition, the Ghostnet project may end up detecting malware that spreads solely using USB drives u2013 something that researchers have yet to identify. Security researchers have long warned about the danger posed by portable USB drives. In 2010, then Deputy Secretary of Defense William Lynn acknowledged that an infected USB was responsible for a compromise of the DODu2019s classified SIPRNet. Despite that, most companies do not closely manage or monitor the use of removable devices by employees, opening a gaping hole for attackers. Famously, IBM was embarrassed after USB keys it was distributing at the AusCERT conference were found to be infected with malware that infected Windows systems. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a576cefc42b00293dd7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Mobile Malware Is Up u2013 Way Up u2013 in McAfee Q2 Threat Report", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/mobile-malware-way-mcafee-q2-threat-report-090412/76972/", "Date" : "September 5, 2012 , 2:21 am", "Article" : "McAfee Labs researchers today announced a surge in malware samples this year u2013 particularly threats that take advantage of mobile networks to launch drive-by downloads, control botnets using Twitter and spread ransomware that locks down infected machines and demand payments from users. The Santa Clara-based company released its Q2 Threat Report, in which its researchers say theyu2019ve unearthed 1.5 million new pieces of malware this year, or an average of nearly 100,000 malware samples a day. More and more malicious code is targeting Googleu2019s Android OS, though Apple users are far from immune too. More than 100 new Mac-oriented samples were discovered last quarter. u201cAttacks that weu2019ve traditionally seen on PCs are now making their way to other devices. For example, in Q2 we saw Flashback, which targeted Macintosh devices and techniques such as ransomware and drive-by downloads targeting mobile,u201d said the Labsu2019 senior vice president, Vincent Weafer, in a prepared statement. The findings in todayu2019s report come from McAfee Labsu2019 350 researchers scattered across 30 countries. Among the emerging threats gaining traction is u201csigned malware,u201d in which attackers attempt to evade detection and encourage open rates by using digital signatures from stolen certificates. u201cIn our 2012 Threats Predictions we predicted that this technique, likely inspired by the success of Duqu and Stuxnet, would rise in 2012. That opinion seems to be a successful example of crystal-ball gazing,u201d researchers wrote in the quarterly report. The past quarter was also the busiest ever for ransomware, which holds part or all of a victimu2019s data hostage and demands anonymous payment methods to restore it. u201cRansomware is particularly problematic because the damage is instant and commonly a machine is rendered completely unusable. So not only is the victimu2019s data destroyed, but some of the victimu2019s money is also gone if he or she attempts to pay the attackeru2019s ransom. And although it is a personal disaster for a home user to lose yearsu2019 worth of data, pictures, and memories, the situation can be much worse in an enterprise if the malware encrypts all the data that a victim has write-access to on a corporate network,u201d the reportu00a0 states. The authors advise users to be be careful opening file attachments and back up systems regularly. Enterprise-level admins should consider establishing access protection rules in their security products. Botnets reached a 12-month high last quarter, with more attackers using Twitter to send out commands and get all infected devices to follow them. Additionally, thumb drives containing malware u2013 particularly password-stealing code u2013 remain a popularu00a0conduit to infect machines. Spams growth rate slowed in most parts of the world, with the exceptions being Columbia, Japan, South Korea and Venezuela. Among those with more than 10 percent growth in spam, social media proved a useful channel to peddle adult products, drugs, lonely women and phish scams. More Web sites that host malware are gaining bad reputations. u201cReputations can be based on full domains and any number of subdomains, as well as on a single IP address or even a specific URL. Malicious reputations are influenced by the hosting of malware, potentially unwanted programs, or phishing sites. Often we observe combinations of questionable code and functionality. These are several of the factors that contribute to our rating of a siteu2019s reputation. By the end of June, the total number of bad URLs referenced by our labs overtook 36 million! This is equivalent to 22.6 million domain names.u201d The authors note that their figure is at odds with the 9,500 new malicious web sites Google announced in a June blog post. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a576cefc42b00293dd8" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Tool Aids in Cracking Mysterious Gauss Malware Encryption", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/tool-aids-cracking-mysterious-gauss-malware-encryption-123112/77353/", "Date" : "December 31, 2012 , 1:03 pm", "Article" : "The mystery wrapped inside a riddle that is the Gauss malwareu2019s encryption scheme may be closer to falling. Late last week, researcher Jens Steube, known as Atom, put the wraps on a tool that should bring experts closer to breaking open the encryption surrounding the espionage malwareu2019s payload.  The tool, called oclGaussCrack, accelerates the process of calculating the hash value of Gaussu2019 known cipher scheme, Steube said. u201cIf it matches, we know we have used the correct key and we can use it to decrypt the encrypted payload,u201d Steube said. u201cThis process is very time-consuming since it takes a lot of calculations. It is so many that we cannot simply brute-force the key. We need a targeted attack to crack it.u201d Gauss, along with Flame, Wiper, MiniFlame and other malicious code used in state-sponsored espionage campaigns, was one of the most concerning stories of 2012. What separated Gauss from Flame, et al, was its focus on attacking financial services organizations. Gauss is a banking Trojan targeting Windows machines in the Middle East; it also can infect USB sticks in order to spread to other machines. It steals data such as system and network information, browser cookies, passwords and more. It also installs a custom Palida Narrow font on infected systems, for reasons still unknown, and also includes an encrypted payload that is awakened only on systems configured in certain ways. Steubeu2019s work focused on cracking the encryption protecting the payload. He told Threatpost the best approach would be to split the problem in two different ways: generating plaintext key candidates, as well as working on the time-consuming work of creating a hash of the candidate to compare the results. OclGaussCrack is the answer to the second part, he said. The tool has been released under a GPL license and Steube hopes that by doing so he can get help in writing a program for candidate generation. Version 1.1 has been released and includes Windows binaries; it speeds up significantly work on the has carrying out 489,000 calculations per second on an AMD Radeon HD 7970 card, more than 30 times faster than an AMD FX 8120 CPU, researchers at Kaspersky Lab said. Steube gave the research community interested in generating candidate keys a couple of jumping off points: the key starts with a path from the PATH environment variable; and appended to this, a substring that is taken from a directory listing from %PROGRAMFILES%. u201cI find it interesting that there is no backslash appended to the path before the second substring is added. This might be because it is assumed the string from the first fetch already contains one at the end,u201d Steube said. u201cIt is possible the second substring contains a company name or a product name since this is what we usually see when listing %PROGRAMFILES%. You should be able to write a program to generate candidates with this information. Then just pipe your candidates to oclGaussCrack.u201d Steube is the creator of the oclHashcat password-recovery tool. Gauss emerged in August and immediately, researchers saw links to Flame and Stuxnet in its code. The malware was found on thousands of machines, most of those in Lebanon. It has a similar architecture to Flame, despite its bent toward stealing banking credentials. Itu2019s also able to infect USB drives with data-stealing malware so that when the infected USB is connected to another PC, the malware runs from the removable drive and collects information from the infected machineu2014likely in an attempt to target air-gapped networks. Kaspersky Lab researchers helped in the initial investigation into Gauss and made the connection between Gauss and its predecessors Stuxnet, Duqu and Flame. u201cBased on our analysis and the timestamps from the collected malware modules, we believe the Gauss operation started sometime around August-September 2011,u201d Kaspersky Lab said in August. u201cThis is particularly interesting because around September 2011, the CrySyS Lab in Hungary announced the discovery of Duqu. We do not know if the people behind Duqu switched to Gauss at that time but we are quite sure they are related: Gauss is related to Flame, Flame is related to Stuxnet, Stuxnet is related to Duqu. Hence, Gauss is related to Duqu.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a586cefc42b00293dd9" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Newly Compiled Driver Shows Duqu Authors Still At Work", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/newly-compiled-driver-shows-duqu-authors-still-work-032012/76345/", "Date" : "March 20, 2012 , 11:44 am", "Article" : "The still-unidentified group of attackers behind Stuxnet and Duqu have drawn quite a bit of attention to themselves in the last couple of years with their creations. Researchers, law enforcement and some particularly angry governments all would like to have a long talk with the crew. But that attention apparently hasnu2019t persuaded the group that itu2019s time to tone down their pursuits, as evidenced by the fact that researchers have discovered a newly compiled driver for Duqu within the last couple of days. One of the unique things about Duqu is that the malware appears to be specifically tailored to each new victim. Rather than writing one piece of malware and spreading it out to a large potential victim base, the crew behind Duqu had a small, specially selected group of targets, each of which got its own specifically crafted components and drivers. Researchers say that the number of known victims of Duqu is quite small, perhaps fewer than 50. u201cThere are a number of different drivers and different modules which are responsible for extracting the Duqu components to disk.u00a0 And basically, there are three files which get created on disk. There is one SYS driver file. There is a small PNF file, a configuration file.u00a0 There is a big PNF file, so the extension is .PNF. And by the way, Stuxnet used the same extensions and this kind of similar mechanism to infect computers and install u2013 basically, to install itself in computers,u201d Costin Raiu, one of the researchers who did the initial analysis of Duqu at Kaspersky Lab, said in an interview after the malwareu2019s discovery. Researchers spent a lot of time analyzing and poring over the drivers and the individual components of Duqu and think that they have a pretty good handle on the way that the malware works now. But that doesnu2019t mean that itu2019s fully understood yet. Just this week another piece of the puzzle came together when researchers found that an odd programming language used in one part of Duqu was heavily modified C combined with some object-oriented programming components. And now researchers at Symantec have found a newly compiled driver for Duqu, leading to speculation that the attackers are still tweaking and modifying their original work. u201cFound newly compiled #Duqu driver (Feb 2012) mcd9x86.sys, no new functionality, Stuxnet attackers very much still at it,u201d Symantecu2019s Security Response team said on Twitter Monday.u00a0 Early Tuesday Raiu said that while the new driver didnu2019t have any new functionality, there are indications that itu2019s not just new but aimed at evading existing detection techniques for Duqu. u201cThe new #Duqu variant discovered by @threatintel last night has been engineered to escape detection by @CrySySLab tools,u201d he said on Twitter, referring to CrySyS Lab, the group of researchers in Hungary who originally found Duqu and developed a detection toolkit for the malware. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a586cefc42b00293dda" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stars Attack on Iran Was Early Version of Duqu", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stars-attack-iran-was-early-version-duqu-110511/75857/", "Date" : "November 5, 2011 , 9:08 pm", "Article" : "A few months after the hysteria around Stuxnet had died down, officials in Iran announced in April that some sensitive systems in the governmentu2019s networks had been attacked by a new piece of malware, known then as Stars. It now appears that attack was, in fact, the first appearance of an early version of Duqu, the most recent in a line of sophisticated attack tools that experts say have been designed to take out specific targets in a variety of sensitive networks. An analysis of the April attack shows that some of the machines that were infected by Stars were compromised using the same Windows kernel vulnerability thatu2019s contained in the Duqu installer. That flaw was unknown publicly until this week when information on the vulnerability emerged, which Microsoft later confirmed. The company has released a workaround for the bug, which is in the TrueType font parsing engine, and says it is working on a permanent patch for it, as well. Some of the targets of Duqu have been compromised using malicious Word documents containing exploit code for the TrueType bug, which is CVE-2011-3402. Researchers have not yet discovered a spreading mechanism for Duqu, if there is one, and it appears at the moment that the malware is being used only for attacks against carefully selected targets in a small number of countries. Among the countries in which infections have been confirmed are Sudan and Iran. Because Duqu is using a Windows kernel vulnerability as its infection method, it does not seem that the attackers are going after control systems at nuclear facilities, as Stuxnet did, but rather are likely going after PCs in key places. Researchers have found that Duqu has an architecture that is different from Stuxnetu2019s, although the two tools do share some code-level similarities. Duqu appears to be a customizable attack framework that can be modified for any number of purposes by the individual attacker, and researchers have discovered that many known infected machines contained drivers for Duqu that were unique and not shared by other infected PCs.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a596cefc42b00293ddc" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Chris Soghoian on Lessons from the Bin Laden Raid and Cyberwar", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/chris-soghoian-lessons-bin-laden-raid-and-cyberwar-061412/76690/", "Date" : "June 14, 2012 , 11:53 am", "Article" : " Chris Soghoian has made a name for himself as a security and privacy researcher and has been the bane of government agencies and organizations prone to being somewhat less than upfront about their security and privacy practices. In this video from the Personal Democracy Forum in New York this week, Soghoian discusses the implications of the U.S. governmentu2019s raid on Osama Bin Laden and usage of offensive cyberwar weapons such as Stuxnet and Duqu. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a5d6cefc42b00293de2" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Duquu2019s u2018Mystery Codeu2019 Not New u2013 Just u2018Old Schoolu2019", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/duqu-s-mystery-code-not-new-just-old-school-031912/76341/", "Date" : "March 19, 2012 , 3:17 pm", "Article" : "Researchers around the world put their heads together and solved the identity of u2018mystery codeu2019 in the Duqu Trojan horse program, researchers from Kaspersky Lab announced on Monday. Weeks after announcing that they had discovered computer code of unknown provenance in the innards of the Duqu Trojan, Kaspersky announced that the mystery code was written in the common C programming language and compiled with Microsoft Visual Studio 2008. However, the Duqu authors modified the underlying C code with a customized extension for combining object oriented programming with the older C language u2013 a variant sometimes termed u201cOO C.u201d The mystery began in early March, after Kaspersky researchers went public with their struggle to identify how a key component of the Duqu Trojan was created.u00a0After isolating and analyzing the Trojan, researchers found segments of a key module that controlled Duquu2019s command and control function were written in an unknown programming language u2013 something that Kaspersky Lab expert Igor Soumenkov described as an object oriented language, but one without references to C++ or any other high level programming or scripting language like C++, Objective C, Java or Python. The researchersu2019 admission set off a storm of speculation from malware experts and programmers around the globe. More than 200 comments on the researchers Website, securelist.com, offered suggestions. Scores more came via e-mail. The debate also spilled into online forums such as Slashdot and Reddit. Contributors fingered everything from LISP and Delphi to Google Go and Forth as the mystery coding language. A week later, researchers announced that, with the help of crowd sourced researchers, they had cracked the code. The language identifying the mystery language as u201cCu201d source code compiled with Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 and special options for optimizing code size and inline expansion. The code was also written with a customized extension for combining object-oriented programming with C, generally referred to as u201cOO C.u201d  Why was it so difficult to identify code written in u201cC,u201d a ubiquitous programming language? Kaspersky Lab Expert Vitaly Kamluk said that applications compiled from languages like C and C++ canu2019t be decompiled into the original source code. u201cItu2019s a one way transformation,u201d Kamluk told reporters in a conference call on Monday. That leaves researchers to guess the original language and compiler used by analyzing the code in an intermediate state, known as assembler code. Typically, that isnu2019t difficult, Kamluk said: most software engineers use one of a handful of popular languages and compilers. And each leaves clues in the assembler code that can be read like a fingerprint. The Duqu code, however, didnu2019t have any of these telltale signatures. u201cWeu2019ve see a lot of malware in all possible languages. Duqu didnu2019t look like C++ code. It was clearly something custom,u201d Kamluk said. While Objective C was one option u2013 and, in fact, one of the short list of suggestions provided to the company u2013 it was difficult to find conclusive evidence that the assembler code. That proof came by way of a submission to news aggregation site Reddit. A post in the ReverseEngineering sub reddit recognized snipets of the Duqu code that were very similar to code produced by SOO u2013 Simple Object Orentation for C, an object oriented framework for the C language. While SOO is one of a few different such frameworks, the output of those other frameworks doesnu2019t match the Duqu code nearly as closely as SOO, according to a post by Igor Soumenkov on Kasperskyu2019s Securelist blog. Kamluk said the use of OOC rather than the more common C++ language suggested that the developers who wrote Duqu were likely older developers who came of age writing programs in C. u201cu201dItu2019s what they were familiar with,u201d he said. Soumenkov said other reasons may have played a role, as well. Professional developers of a certain generation u201cdonu2019t trust C++ compilers,u201d he wrote. u201cC was a direct evolutionary step over assembler and quickly became a standard. When C++ was published, many old school programmers preferred to stay away from it because of distrust in memory allocation and other obscure language features which cuse indirect execution of code,u201d he wrote. Also, the C language is extremely portable to other platforms u2013 a plus for a malicious Trojan. While much is still not known about who created Duqu u2013 for example: its exact purpose or country of origin u2013 Kaspersky Lab researchers say that those behind it were running a u201chighly sophisticatedu201d operation, typical of what is found in u201ccomplex u2018civilu2019 software projects, rather than contemporary malware.u201d The analysis moves the worldu2019s understanding of Duqu forward and, in part, dispels earlier analyses that linked the malware to the Stuxnet worm. While the two families were superficially similar and both complex, subsequent analysis of the Duqu code makes it clear that Stuxnet and Duqu were more different than alike. Kamluk said that he hopes the research helps the community move forward from understanding the Trojan to, possibly, identifying who is behind it and bringing those individuals to justice. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a5e6cefc42b00293de6" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Attorney General Holder Announces Probe Into Cyberwar Leaks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/attorney-general-holder-announces-probe-cyberwar-leaks-061112/76676/", "Date" : "June 11, 2012 , 6:57 pm", "Article" : "U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder hasu00a0issued an assignment to the U.S. District Attorneys to start an investigation into possible leaks of classified information, presumably by individuals within the Obama administration who recently spoke anonymously about the administrationu2019s ties to the development of Stuxnet. Holderu2019s statement doesnu2019t mention anyone or thing by name, but it is widely understood that he is referring to a recent New York Times article, which cites unnamed members of the presidentu2019s national security team and claims that the Obama administration ordered a wave of cyber attacks against Iran. Holder is assigning Ronald C. Machen Jr, U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia, and Rod J. Rosenstein, U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland, to investigate to possible disclosures of unauthorized information. The alleged leaks were perceived, almost immediately, as election-year politicking by a number of prominent Republican lawmakers, including Senator John McCain (R-AZ), who pushed for a special counsel to look into the leaks, according to various reports. u201cThe unauthorized disclosure of classified information can compromise the security of this country and all Americans, and it will not be tolerated,u201d Holder said. u201cThe Justice Department takes seriously cases in which government employees and contractors entrusted with classified information are suspected of willfully disclosing such classified information to those not entitled to it, and we will do so in these cases as well.u201d Specifically, the New York Timesu00a0report names Stuxnet as part of this wave of cyberattacks against Iran. Kaspersky Lab recently announced that the u00a0Flame malwareu00a0is unequivocally linked to Stuxnet, so there may be even more to the story. There is, of course, the Duqu malware as well, which is also widely believed to be related to Stuxnet. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a636cefc42b00293ded" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Diving Into Flame, Researchers Find A Link To Stuxnet", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/diving-flame-researchers-find-link-stuxnet-061112/76674/", "Date" : "June 11, 2012 , 1:35 pm", "Article" : "Researchers digging through the code of the recently discovered Flame worm say they have come across a wealth of evidence that suggests Flame and the now-famous Stuxnet worm share a common origin. Researchers from Kaspersky Lab say that a critical module that the Flame worm used to spread is identical to a module used by Stuxnet.a, an early variant of the Stuxnet worm that began circulating in 2009, more than a year before a later variant of the worm was discovered by antivirus researchers at the Belarussian firm VirusBlokAda. The claims are the most direct, to date, that link the Flame malware, which attacked Iranian oil facilities, with Stuxnet, which is believed to have targeted Iranu2019s uranium-enrichment facility at Natanz. If true, they suggest a widespread and multi-year campaign of offensive cyber attacks against multiple targets within that country. According to the Kaspersky researchers, early versions of Stuxnet were, in fact, created out of components that were part of what they refer to as the u201cFlame platformu201d. But they believe development of the two malicious programs diverged after 2009, suggesting that two different development teams may have been working independently for a single entity to create malware with specific objectives, according to Kaspersky researchers, writing on the companyu2019s blog, Securelist. Researchers at Kaspersky and elsewhere initially thought that Stuxnet and Flame were very different pieces of software, and that there was little evidence of a link or common ancestor.u00a0However, there was plenty of circumstantial evidence from the start that suggested some connection. For one thing, both Stuxnet and Flame infections were concentrated in Iran and neighboring countries u2013 an unusual pattern of infection compared to other malware. Second, Flame relied on many of the same mechanisms to spread from computer to computer, including USB-based infections and exploitation of a vulnerabilities in Windowsu2019 Autorun feature and a print spooler vulnerability u2013 both of which were used by Stuxnet to spread. Subsequent research suggests that claims about the distinctness of Flame were premature. In their work, Kaspersky researchers worked off clues generated by their own automated virus analysis technology, which spotted a malicious file that it considered a variant of Stuxnet in October 2010. Kaspersky analysts at the time studied the variant and saw few similarities to Stuxnet. They dismissed the categorization as a u201cfalse positiveu201d and renamed the malware u201cTocy.au201d More than two years later, however, those same researchers stumbled on Tocy.a as they looked for older malware samples that resembled Flame. Noting the history of Tocy.a and its initial designation as a Stuxnet variant, the researchers probed deeper into why the companies artificial intelligence saw the two pieces of malicious code as so similar to each other, but not to other samples from Kasperskyu2019s massive library of malware. Their conclusion: a module originally found in an early Stuxnet variant dubbed u201cResource 207.u201d The module, a little more than 350,000 bytes long, was used by Stuxnet.a to to do u201cprivilege escalationu201d u2013 tricks to give the attackers administrator-level access to systems they compromise. Resource 207 disappeared from later versions of Stuxnet that spread more widely and, thus, received more attention from researchers u2013 its code absorbed into other Stuxnet components. Looked at closely, however, Resource 207 from the early version of Stuxnet was nearly identical to a module in the Flame malware. Kaspersky now considers it a u201cFlame plug-in. Or, to be more precise proto-Flame.u201d In fact, it matches almost exactly with a contemporary Flame file called u201cmssecmgr.ocx.u201d The two elements contain similar bones: components with nearly identicalu00a0names, identical string decryption algorithms and nearly identical methods of writing shell code components within each. Like handwriting analysts, the Kaspersky researchers have concluded that at least some elements of both Stuxnet and Flame were created by the same hand u2013 or hands. Resource 207 is, they believe, an early component of what they now consider the u2018Flameu2019 platform. u201cBy the time Stuxnet was created (in January-June 2009), the Flame platform was already in existence,u201d the researchers write. u201cwe currently date [Flameu2019s] creation to no later than summer 2008, [when it] already had a modular structure.u201d The worm known as Stuxnet, they believe, used a module built on the Flame platform. That module was probably created specifically to operate as part of Stuxnet. Researchers believe it originally exploited a previously unknown (zero-day) vulnerability that enabled an escalation of privileges, presumably by exploiting an issue later patched by Microsoft with MS09-025. The module was then removed in 2010 as the Stuxnet authors shifted focus to a new method of propagation using the vulnerability patched by Microsoft in its MS10-046 update in August 2010. After 2009, the evolution of the Flame platform continued independently from Stuxnet, and Kaspersky researchers theorize that the work on the malicious programs was tasked to two independent developer teams, which they termed u201dTeam Fu201d (Flame) and u201dTeam Du201d (for u201cTilded,u201d the Stuxnet program). u201cEach of these teams has been developing its own platform since 2007-2008 at the latest, but snippets of their common origins appear in both pieces of malware.u201d In addition to the concrete link between Flame and Stuxnet, researchers also discovered that there was a fifth zero-day vulnerability being used by a version of Stuxnet is 2009, which was included in the resource 207 module shared by Stuxnet and Flame. Exploit code for that flaw, which is an elevation-of-privilege bug, was included in a variant of Stuxnet that was in use in early 2009. The code for that variant was compiled in February 2009 and the bug was unknown at the time. Microsoft patched the vulnerability with bulletin MS09-025, four months later.u00a0 u201cThe same programmer who did the attack on this bug and the MS10-073 bug used in Stuxnet.b, which also was an elevation of privilege,u201d Roel Schouwenberg, a senior malware researcher at Kaspersky, said in a press conference Monday. u201cIt was definitely very interesting to see.u201d Schouwenberg said that researchers are unsure why resource 207 was removed from the Stuxnet code at some point, but it may have been a way to keep the two attack tools separate. u201cOne theory is that Flame was a more general purpose cyber-espionage tool and they didnu2019t want to mix the two platforms more than was necessary,u201d he said. The implications of the researchersu2019 discoveries are intriguing. Many security experts will be unsurprised to learn that two pieces of malicious code with such similar targets and objectives may have come from the same source. Many assumed the Flame malware had links back to a foreign government, rather than criminal hacking groups. News last week about the wormu2019s use of a never-before-seen cryptographic collision attacku00a0to enable the malware to impersonate a Microsoft software updateu00a0more or less sealed the case. However, recent news reports citing unnamed government sources give the U.S. credit for creating Stuxnet. That suggests that the U.S. or its allies may have been behind the Flame malware also. That, in turn, has stoked public debate about the wisdom of conducting offensive cyber operations u2013 covert or otherwise. That debate, like the investigation into Flame itself, is likely to intensify, rather than fade, as time goes by. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a666cefc42b00293df2" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Analysis Shows Traces of Wiper Malware, But No Links to Flame", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/analysis-shows-traces-wiper-malware-no-links-flame-082912/76960/", "Date" : "August 29, 2012 , 1:06 pm", "Article" : "One of the things about the investigation into the Flame malware thatu2019s remained unclear for several months now is what ever became of the so-called Wiper virus that had been seen erasing data on machines in Iran and that led researchers to eventually discover Flame. No actual samples of Wiper have been seen, just indirect evidence that the malware existed, but now researchers have analyzed some hard drive images of machines that were affected by Wiper and found that the malware has some links to Duqu and Stuxnet, but was in fact a separate attack and doesnu2019t appear to have any ties to Flame. The first indications of Wiperu2019s emergence came in April when reports of attacks on businesses inside Iran that were destroying data on infected machines began to surface. The malware was wiping certain sections of the hard drive of infected machines, but no one was able to put a finger on exactly how the attacks were happening.u00a0 u201cDuring the investigation of the mysterious malware attack in April, we were able to obtain and analyze several hard drive images that were attacked by Wiper. We can now say with certainty that the incidents took placeu00a0and that the malware responsible for these attacks existed in April 2012. Also, we are aware of some veryu00a0similar incidents that took place in December of 2011,u201d researchers at Kaspersky Lab wrote in a new analysis of Wiper released Wednesday. u201cThe creators of Wiper were extremely careful to destroy absolutely every single piece of data which could beu00a0used to trace the incidents. So, in every single case weu2019ve analyzed, almost nothing was left after theu00a0activation of Wiper. Itu2019s important to stress u2018almost nothingu2019 here because some traces did remain that allowedu00a0us to get a better understanding of the attacks.u00a0From some of the destroyed systems we were lucky enough to recover a copy of the registry hive. Theu00a0registry hive did not contain any malicious drivers or startup entries. However, we came up with the idea tou00a0look into the hive slack space for deleted entries.u201d In the course of analyzing the hard drives, the researchers quickly identified a file that had a name similar to those used by Duqu. They tried to recover the file from the disk but found that it had been overwritten by garbage data. u201cWe found the same u201cwipingu201d pattern in several of the other systems we analyzed u2013 a service named u2018RAHDAUD64u2019 which was deleted just before it is wiped u2013 and its file filled with garbage data. In these otheru00a0systems, the RAHDAUD64 service pointed to different filenames, such as u2018~DF11.tmpu2019 and u2018~DF3C.tmpu2019. Sou00a0itu2019s possible the names were random,u201d the analysis says. The algorithm used by the Wiper malware employed a specific pattern when erasing data, with the malware searching for and erasing dozens of file types, including Zip files, Word and Excel files, executables, PDFs and many others. It would then destroy files in some specific folders, including Documents and Settings and try to destroy files on any attached USB devices. Wiper would then erase certain sectors of the hard disk. u201cWiping a disk that is several hundred gigabytes in size might take hours. So the creators of the malware wereu00a0careful to select wiping algorithms that could achieve maximum efficiency,u201d the analysis says. One of the other interesting things the researchers found was some similarities between the files that Wiper destroyed and some of the files used by Stuxnet and Duqu. u201cInteresting enough, on some systems we noticed that all PNF files in the INF Windows folder were wiped withu00a0a higher priority than other files. Once again, this is a connection to Duqu and Stuxnet, which kept their mainu00a0body in encrypted u2018.PNFu2019 files,u201d the researchers said. After digging through the hard drives and analyzing the traces left by Wiper, the researchers came to the conclusion that the malware was highly effective in destroying not just the data on the machines, but most of the traces of the malware itself. u201cThere is no doubt that there was a piece of malware known as Wiper that attacked computer systems in Iranu00a0(and maybe in other parts of the world) until late April 2012.u00a0The malware was so well written that once it was activated, no data survived. So,u00a0although weu2019ve seen traces of the infection, the malware is still unknown because weu00a0have not seen any additional wiping incidents that followed the same pattern as Wiper,u201d the analysis says. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a666cefc42b00293df3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Attackers Can Use u2018Self-Destructu2019 Feature to Kill Flame", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/attackers-can-use-self-destruct-feature-kill-flame-060812/76669/", "Date" : "June 8, 2012 , 5:32 pm", "Article" : "The attackers behind Flame can easily clean up compromised computers, according to research by security firm Symantec who found that some attackers have been able to use command-and-control (C&C) servers to completely remove the malware from certain machines. According to a post on Symantecu2019s Security Response blog yesterday, C&C servers can send a file to infected computers to u201cuninstallu201d the Flame malware.u00a0The file, Browse32.ocx, then goes on to search the infected computer for every file used by Flame, removes them and even overwrite the disk with random bits of information and characters to cover its tracks. According to Symantecu2019s analysis, the module contains two different exports: EnableBrowser, which initializes the module and StartBrowse, which does the actual deletion of the Flame files. Symantec also adds that the module appears to have been created on May 9 and looks similar to SUICIDE, an older module previously found in Flameu2019s code. Flame was discovered and recent months and disclosed by the Iranian government and western firmsu00a0last week. The wormu00a0quickly drew comparisons to Stuxnet and Duqu. While the malware has apparently existed for years, it wasnu2019t until this week that it was revealed the attackers used a collision attack to get the malware to exploit a fraudulent certificate from Microsoft to attack Windows systems. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a676cefc42b00293df4" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Interview with Kaspersky Chief Malware Expert Alex Gostev", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/interview-kaspersky-chief-malware-expert-alex-gostev-122412/77341/", "Date" : "December 24, 2012 , 4:50 pm", "Article" : "The last year has seen a lot of changes in the threat landscape, with the emergence of a number of new cyber espionage tools such as Gauss and Flame, as well as an increase in the volume of malware targeting mobile platforms such as Android. Recently, Alex Gostev, the chief malware expert at Kaspersky Lab, answered questions submitted by users on Facebook, discussing the evolution of antimalware solutions, the threats to mobile devices and how governments around the world are handling the cybercrime explosion. Hi Alex, I would like to ask about cyber spying. You know, we make a lot of overseas calls via Skype in business today. Is there a wiretapping risk with Skype calls? Alex Gostev: If the computer of the Skype user is infected with a malicious program capable of recording voice traffic (or intercepting data from a microphone), then, naturally, any voice communication via Skype can be intercepted. This is not just a theoretical possibility; incidents like this have in fact taken place repeatedly, and have even involved software created by law enforcement agencies. For example, an incident of this kind took place in Germany last year. Are governments around the world coping with cybercrimes or just studying it?  Alex Gostev: The main problem with fighting cybercrime today is its global character. Undoubtedly, many countries in the world have achieved notable success in combating this threat; however, the most serious crimes can only be investigated successfully if there is international cooperation. Unfortunately, this is an area where problems do exist: a number of countries, for one reason or another, are not involved in international initiatives to fight cybercrime. u00a0 How did you manage to become who you are? Where did you get all that knowledge?    Alex Gostev: Thatu2019s a tough one J It was back in 1994 when I came across my first computer viruses; I only joined Kaspersky Lab in 2002. So you could say I gained most of my knowledge about viruses on my own. Take my word for it: there is sufficient information available on the Internet both to learn to analyze malicious programs and to understand the current trends in cybercrime and threat evolution. So, I suggest you read as many sites and expert blogs as you can, and try to reproduce their findings on your own; try to understand how the experts came to the conclusions they write about. Kaspersky Lab has three expert blogs: Securelist, Threatpost u00a0and our new consumer blog. Why is it that virus makers mostly target the Windows operating system?  Alex Gostev: The answer is simple: over 90% of users are on Windows. There is a similar situation when it comes to mobile platforms: Android leads the pack both in terms of users and malware. They say that itu2019s cyber war out there. Has Kaspersky been attacked?  Alex Gostev: Just like any other company involved in information security, Kaspersky Lab is a frequent target for attacks. This is to be expected. And, of course, we use the most reliable technologies to protect us from such attacks. I want to work for Kaperskyu2019s GReAT team. What would be the best college to finish and courses to take?  Alex Gostev: A technical education is important. Thereu2019s no one college or set of courses thatu2019s the best to become a security researcher, but a good knowledge of operating systems, programming languages and a willingness to work hard are essential. How many threats are added to Kaspersky databases daily to provide effective protection to everyone? Whatu2019s the comparison to free antivirus solutions?  Alex Gostev: At the present time, we detect some 200,000 new malicious programs every day. Naturally, it takes serious resources u2013 both human and technical u2013 to collect and process such huge volumes of threats. Besides malicious files, there are also other types of threats including malicious sites, network attacks, exploits etc. that we also need to keep tabs on. All this requires an extensive financial outlay. Independent testing shows that we have an edge over freeware security tools. u00a0 With nations increasingly using harmful software on their enemies what do you think about this? Whatu2019s Kasperskyu2019s stance on this? Has Kaspersky been approached by governments? What do you foresee for the future of industrial/governmental cyber wafrare. Whatu2019s Kasperskyu2019s future in this?  Alex Gostev: Thatu2019s a difficult question that really merits a separate article. In a nutshell, our first, major priority is to protect our users. So we will protect them from all types of malicious programs regardless of who creates them. It is also our aim to communicate a simple message to the worldu2019s governments: any malware can also be used against its creators; unintended targets can also become victims. Cybercrime must become subject to international law and must come under the regulations and monitoring of the global community. u00a0 Anything to protect us from our own government?  Alex Gostev: We protect against malicious programs without making any distinctions as to who created them. I know that Windows phone is not considered a virus target, but for those of us who want more security for our phone and feel left out, u00a0why is it so hard to make virus protection for Windows Phones?  Alex Gostev: There are no problems whatsoever about creating antivirus protection for Windows Phone (at least, Kaspersky Lab does not have any problems doing it). Why do people say Apple computers donu2019t get viruses when they actually get more than people think?  Alex Gostev: These are old stereotypes that were created primarily by Apple themselves. Apple have claimed for a long time that their computers are much better protected. Eventually, they admitted that malware does exist for Apple computers and even incorporated a primitive antivirus scanner into OS X. Microsoft, for instance, also had to spend a decade or so learning to take virus threats seriously. Apple is only taking its first steps along this road, but we think they are moving in the right direction, especially if you look at the protection system on the iPhone. Alex, whatu2019s the best way of preventing your computer being infected and locked and asked to pay a steep fee to unlock it?  Alex Gostev: In the overwhelming majority of cases involving extortion malware, or ransomware, the victim computer is infected via a web browser. This is usually down to vulnerabilities in Java, Adobe Flash or in the browsers themselves. All these vulnerabilities have long been known and patched by the vendors. So, your first step should be to install all the latest patches and updates for your software on a regular basis. u00a0 What are the main Android threats? http://www.securelist.com/en/analysis/204792254/Kaspersky_Security_Bulletin_2012_Malware_Evolution See point 3 (u201cThe explosion of Android threatsu201d) and item 10 (u201cMobile malwareu201d) in this security bulletin. u00a0 Why does Kaspersky often (maybe very often) recognize u201cgoodu201d software as malicious?  Alex Gostev: I have to disagree with you on this one. Kaspersky Labu2019s products have one of the lowest false positive rates in the entire industry; independent test results back up this claim. We couldnu2019t possibly have received the u201cProduct of the yearu201d award unless we had demonstrated the fewest false positives in dedicated testing. u00a0 Which web browser do you prefer? Which one is more secure? Which one is the best solution for Kaspersky products? Alex Gostev: At the current time, I prefer Google Chrome. Which browser is the safest? Well, the answer to that is changing all the time. The situation can change in an instant u2013 the discovery of a 0-day vulnerability would immediately turn the safest browser into the most vulnerable one. Therefore, apart from keeping an eye on the browser vulnerability situation, it is also advisable to complement your browser with dedicated protection tools, such as a sandbox, whitelisting etc. All these things are implemented in Kaspersky Labu2019s products. What are the most u201dfashionableu201d viruses today? What was the most unusual virus detected last year? Alex Gostev: Depends what you mean by u201cfashionableu201d. If weu2019re talking about high-profile malware, it would primarily be a whole new generation of malware in the Middle East which includes Flame, Duqu, Gauss, miniFlame, Wiper. All these kept us fairly busy throughout the year, both in terms of searching for and analyzing the findings. The realm of cyber weapons, i.e. malware created at the state level to attack the citizens, companies and authorities of other countries, is probably the hottest and most interesting topic right now.  As for unusual malware, there were traits in every single program mentioned above that we thought (and still think) were unusual. For instance, one of the Gauss modules installs a modified proprietary font called Palida Narrow into the system. Why it does this remains a mystery. Another example is the propagation module incorporated into the Flame worm u2013it helps the worm spread via local area networks, and that is a whole other story. Its creators have not only successfully implemented an unprecedented MD5 cryptographic attack but have also created a u201crealu201d Microsoft certificate. This is way beyond a 0-day vulnerability u2013 this is u201cgod modeu201d. Nothing like this has occurred before. Is being a virus analyst a difficult job? Alex Gostev: Itu2019s only difficult for the first few years. After that, once youu2019ve gained experience, it gets easier. I remember about six years ago we organized competitions in our Virus Lab to see who could analyze malware the fastest. The record was 43 seconds from a file arriving for analysis till a detection was added. On the other hand, virus analysis is only a small part of the job. You have to be well informed about all developments, including news from your competitors and news from the other side of the front line; you need to be aware of where itu2019s all going and what will happen tomorrow. I suppose, this is the most difficult part, and itu2019s getting more difficult every day. What new types of malware does the near future have in store for us?  Alex Gostev: There are unlikely to be any new types of malware. All the generic types of malware behavior have long been identified and malware, including viruses, worms, Trojans and exploits, are evolving along those lines. Of course, dozens of subtypes exist within each category, such as Trojan cryptographers, banking Trojans, network worms etc. However, malware evolution takes place exclusively in terms of seizing new platforms or operating systems u2013 mobile Trojans are a vivid example. From the point of view of technology, everything is the same, but with new platforms and new possibilities, such as the sending of SMS text messages. Therefore, we expect all the conventional types of threats to migrate in the near future from personal computers to the entire range of modern devices. Alex, do you keep a diary for yourself? E.g. I came across such and such a malicious program today. I was able to treat it in such and such a way. Tried such and such a dish and liked it. The weather was nice, etc. Alex Gostev: No, I simply donu2019t have time for that. Time and again I think that it might be worthwhile writing down how my research is going. I think it would make a pretty interesting book. On the other hand, many of the things weu2019re involved in and the things weu2019re aware of cannot be published (yet). Which operating system do you use? Which do you think is the safest for desktops? Alex Gostev: I am not a dedicated fan of any specific operating system; in fact, I have a very simple view on them: for every task, there exists a suitable operating system. I arrange my work accordingly. In a single day I can work under Windows, OS X and Linux, not to mention mobile platforms for phones and tablet PCs. There are no secure desktop operating systems. Any operating system can only be called secure on a conditional basis until the next 0-day vulnerability emerges. When this happens, it instantly turns the safest operating system into the most vulnerable one. Iu2019m talking here about a situation where the vulnerability is publicly disclosed. As for privately-known vulnerabilities, well they always exist for any given operating system. u00a0 How much of his work time does a senior virus analyst put into practical, hands-on work, such as reverse engineering, debugging and sandboxing? Alex Gostev: It depends on the time of the year and the research project the team is working on at a specific time. Sometimes, I can spend 80% of the day on hands-on research of a specific piece of malware. That may last for, say, a week. Sometimes I donu2019t touch a single malware file for an entire day. If you look at the bigger picture, Iu2019d say I spend no more than 20% of my time throughout the year on hands-on research. However, when I was a virus analyst processing the inbound malware traffic, it took up 100% of my time. Now, I have to do a lot of non-core activities, such as giving answers to your questions ud83dude42 u00a0 What make of smartphone or telephone does Alexander use (which manufacturer, model)? Does he have a mobile security solution installed on it? Alex Gostev: At the moment I have an iPhone 3. It is a corporate phone. I donu2019t have any antivirus on it, because: a) no antivirus solution exists for iPhones; b) it has not been jailbroken c) there are no viruses for non-jailbroken iPhones anyway. How do I properly uninstall Kaspersky Labu2019s products so no garbage is left in the system and registry? Alex Gostev: The u201cproperu201d way is to use the standard uninstaller. Should anything go wrong and the result is not satisfactory, use the dedicated removal tool: http://support.kaspersky.com/faq/?qid=208279463 How can I get rid of my paranoia and obsession that there is a Trojan in the system, or a vulnerability is being exploited? Alex Gostev: Why would you want to get rid of it? When it comes to IT security paranoia is actually a positive thing, as it makes you more careful about what you do and how you do it. It makes you try to figure out how the system works, promotes your self-development and broadens your outlook. In other words, itu2019s a good thing. At work, I often have to compile all types of DLL files. Security software pretty often reports them as being potentially dangerous, even after I block heuristic analysis. What can I do other than adding exclusion rules into the work directory? Alex Gostev: I canu2019t give recommendations unless I have a complete understanding of which files you use, which functions you use, what type of warnings your security software gives, what it specifically reports etc. If you are totally sure that your files are clean (beware though, there may be surprises, e.g. check out the history of the Induc virus), then go ahead and add them to the exclusion rules and contact your security provideru2019s support line and let them find out what the reasons are for the false positives. How safe is it to use cloud-based storage? Do you know of any cases where the cloud has been infected? Alex Gostev: Ah, this is a major topic. There was a recent newspaper publication about this in which I feature. Unfortunately, itu2019s only in Russian. For those of you who know Russian, check it out here: http://www.kommersant.ru/doc/1771693 Can you please tell us about how Kasperskyu2019s Virus Encyclopedia documentation is created.  Alex Gostev: These days, 99% of the malware descriptions in Kasperskyu2019s Virus Encyclopedia have been created by a robot using standard templates and based on automatic analysis of files. Several thousand old descriptions also exist that were written by humans (yes, there used to be time when a new dedicated description could be created for each new virus). Several hundred of them were created specifically by me. The management of one large company says that Kaspersky Lab writes viruses and creates zombie networks to infect computers in the Russian segment of the Internet, in order to sell more of their products and provide consulting services. Can you please comment on this. I canu2019t disclose the name of the company as I work for it. Alex Gostev: I recommend you change your employer. If your management has such a mindset, you never know what theyu2019ll come up with next. Can you dispel the myth that working in IT security is the preserve of men. It would be great if you could also provide some supporting facts. Alex Gostev: This is in fact not a myth, but the current reality. Men do indeed make up the majority of experts in this field. Having said that, there are women who work in IT security, and all of them demonstrate a greater professionalism than most men working in this area. In my private view, a woman working in IT security has to demonstrate a very high level of professionalism. All the women I know who work in this sphere, are very good specialists, but there are so few of them. Furthermore, they are so well known in their profession (especially in Russia) that no proof is really necessary.   What can you say about the antivirus that is incorporated in Windows 8? This takes away quite a bit business from the security software manufacturers. How would you comment on this? Alex Gostev: Itu2019s been quite a while since it was incorporated, and quite a while since itu2019s been u201ctaking away businessu201d. The thing is, it never did in fact take any business. The simple fact is that in order to develop successful security solutions, a company needs to specialize in developing those solutions. That must be their core business. That cannot be said of Microsoft. My friends say Kaspersky Anti-Virus is a resource-hungry monster, and recommend that I use free antivirus solutions (I wonu2019t advertise them here). Their argument is: free antivirus is no worse, in fact they are better in many respects. Is this correct? Alex Gostev: No, and I canu2019t be bothered disproving it here. I personally would never use a free antivirus, even if I didnu2019t work for Kaspersky Lab. I know how this type of software works, who works on these programs and how. Which antivirus manufacturers do you feel most envious of? Would you agree to work for them if they paid you enough? Alex Gostev: Well, Iu2019m not envious of anyone. There are companies that I have respect for u2013 these are primarily the companies that can make good use of the resources they have, both human and technical, where the work of the specialists makes me say: u201cHow the hell did they find this before us or do a better job of analyzing than us!u201d This really stimulates competition, and, as a consequence, our level of expertise improves as well. In recent times, Iu2019ve only seen this sort of interesting, motivating competition between us and Symantec. To be more precise, between Kasperskyu2019s team of experts (GReAT) and their STAR team. That said, we cooperate very closely with them on a number of research topics, and have good personal relationships with them.  As for working for a different antivirus company u2013 well, I think Iu2019ve become too much of a Kaspersky man. Iu2019d be more likely to change the IT security sphere for a different, but related area. Or set up my own business. How do you attract clever students and specialists to your company? Is there a chance they will later be recruited by secret services (foreign or Russian)? Or is this the first time youu2019ve heard about this? Alex Gostev: How we attract new employees is a business secret J As for being recruited by secret services, I didnu2019t in fact understand that one. Secret services can recruit anyone u2013 taxi drivers, bakers, managers (ourselves not excluded), so what? Kaspersky Lab has its own security service, and its does a great job. This question is within their competence. When I was reverse engineering one of your products, namelyu00a0 Kaspersky CRYSTAL v12.0.1.288, I discovered the following comment: //I am not responsible for this code //I was forced to write it against my will This is an Easter egg, right? u00a0 Alex Gostev: When programs get complied, the comments existing in the source code do not enter the final code u2013 every programmer knows this. So you could not have obtained that by reverse engineering. Read about the prehistory of that case: http://stackoverflow.com/a/216744   Is a hardware firewall in the router enough? Or maybe, besides that, itu2019s good to have a software firewall? Alex Gostev: The firewalls in modern routers are pretty limited in terms of their functionality, and perform primitive filtering at the level of port addresses. Naturally, this solution is not adequate for complete security. I want to ask about security in Linux. How does Kaspersky Lab approach this system from a security aspect? Do you study the number and geography of threats for Linux. Do such threats evolve in any way, and are they really dangerous? Linux users are convinced that they are secure, and malware does not pose any threat to them. You can read tons of comments like u201cIu2019ve got Linux, Iu2019m secureu201d. What do you think about this? Alex Gostev: There are far fewer attacks against Linux than Windows or even OS X, for that matter. The user base isnu2019t as large as Windows and so the target isnu2019t as attractive for attackers. There are vulnerabilities and other threats for Linux systems and have been since the beginning, but malware isnu2019t a major issue on Linux. u00a0 Recently, I read that Android is the most unsafe mobile operating system. Do you agree? Which mobile OS is, in your opinion, the most secure? u00a0 Alex Gostev: Yes, I agree that Android is the most vulnerable mobile platform. The safest is iOS. u00a0 Stuxnet, Duqu, Flame and the latest Gauss have infected millions of computers, spying on their activities without the user realizing it. How is it possible that, despite the improvements antivirus products constantly make in detecting and blocking malware based on the behavior of executable files, Stuxnet and co. have not been noticed and detected? For example the spread via USB flash drive by autorun.inf using the CVE-2010-2568 vulnerability in the *.LNK file, or sending data to a remote server u2013 how is this possible? What does Kaspersky Lab plan to do to fight cyber-espionage? What will be the next Gauss? Alex Gostev: First of all, the Duqu, Flame and Gauss incidents do not involve millions of computers u2013 at most they affected thousands. In fact, Duqu and miniFlame only affected a few dozen computers. Second, weu2019re talking about programs that cost millions and that had input from dozens of people. These are not typical cyber threats u2013 they are cutting-edge, complex threats. Obviously, learning how to reliably detect and block them takes time. It should be noted here that KL was the first company to detect and carry out in-depth analysis of them. We are the best in the world at detecting these sorts of threats u2013 and thatu2019s a fact. Weu2019ll use the knowledge weu2019ve gained to seek out other similar threats. u00a0u00a0 Why does Kaspersky slow my PC down so much? Alex Gostev: A good level of protection will always require some use of computer resources. There are software products out there that call themselves antivirus solutions and which operate faster than our product, but the level of protection they provide is nowhere near that offered by Kaspersky Lab. We donu2019t see the point of lowering the level of protection, because just one missed virus out of millions detected can cause a user major problems. We are constantly working on new technologies that will allow us to depart from older protection methods, such as the multi-level scanning of files. These technologies will use less computer resources, but also ensure the highest level of protection is maintained. What is the role of Cloud Protection in Kasperskyu2019s 2012 product versions? What are the pros besides the basic protection? Alex Gostev: The reaction time of the cloud to new threats is generally several times greater than that offered by traditional signature databases. Cloud protection is intended primarily to prevent the user being affected by the very latest threats. Your antivirus is useful against viruses and Trojans whose signatures are already known and the code is already recognized as malicious. What about u201chand madeu201d viruses with hidden code?  Alex Gostev: Signature-based analysis is a tried-and-tested method of detecting threats, but on its own against todayu2019s threats itu2019s virtually useless. Thatu2019s why our product uses behavioral analyzers capable of determining whether a program is behaving itself or not.u00a0u00a0 u00a0 When installing Kaspersky Anti-Virus together with another antivirus solution, why does Kaspersky tell you to remove them, but they donu2019t say anything about Kaspersky? I found this rather strange. Alex Gostev: To ensure a high level of protection and avoid any conflict with other programs, we recommend users uninstall all other antivirus products before installing our product. It is technically possible to have two or three antivirus solutions on one machine, but it will mean the computer is overloaded and will slow it down considerably. u00a0u00a0u00a0 u00a0Why donu2019t you contact rutracker.org and tell them to stop distributing your products? Alex Gostev: Let them carry on u2013 we donu2019t mind J Is Kaspersky Mobile Security good enough to protect my Android phone? Also, why are there different prices for KMS on Google Play and on kaspersky.com sites?  Alex Gostev: Kaspersky Mobile Security is one of the best mobile AVs (and this is not just our opinion, PPCSL, AV-Test and other independent test agencies say the same). So, in answer to your first question, yes, it is. There are some differences between the update speeds on the GPlay and Kaspersky Lab websites and the tech support terms are also different (on GPlay you can get only limited support via email). When will a control plug-in for browsers be implemented in KAV or KIS? Alex Gostev: Is it really necessary? Itu2019s much easier and more effective to open the product and make all the necessary changes there. If youu2019re talking about tuning the product settings, it is more effective to make all the necessary changes there. Also, we need to isolate our UI settings from malware and other processes to ensure the protection level. Today we download loads of free apps to our gadgets. Can the attacker take advantage and disguise them as Trojans to compromise our systems and break into other remote targets? Alex Gostev: There are indeed lots of Android Trojans spreading not only in the guise of legitimate apps but also embedded by malicious users in popular programs. To do this they create their own modifications of the original app package where the Trojan module is added. Here are some recent examples of this: and itu2019s also worth reading our report on mobile malware in 2012. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a6a6cefc42b00293dfa" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Air Force Openly Seeking Cyber-Weapons", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/air-force-openly-seeking-cyber-weapons-082812/76956/", "Date" : "August 28, 2012 , 4:03 pm", "Article" : "The Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC) posted a broad agency announcement [PDF] recently, calling on contractors to submit concept papers detailing technological demonstrations of u2018cyberspace warfare operationsu2019 (CWO) capabilities. The Air Force is looking to obtain CWO capabilities falling into a number of categories including: u2018cyberspace warfare attacku2019 and u2018cyberspace warfare support.u2019 The broad agency announcement defines u2018cyberspace warfare attacku2019 capabilities as those which would give them the ability to u201cdestroy, deny, degrade, disrupt, deceive, corrupt, or usurp the adversaries [sic] ability to use the cyberspace domain for his advantage.u201d Cyberspace warfare support capabilities, the document claims, would include actions deployed by operational commanders in order to, intercept, identify, and locate sources of access and vulnerability for threat recognition, targeting, and planning, both immediately and for future operations. This also includes the providing of information required for the immediate decisions involving CWOs and data used to produce intelligence or provide targeting for an electronic attack. In addition to those listed above, the Air Force is seeking u2018situational awareness capabilities that give an operator near real-time effectiveness feedback in a form that is readily observed by the operator.u2019 This would address the u2018mapping of networks (both data and voice),u2019 u2018access to cyberspace domain, information, networks, systems, or devices,u2019 u2018denial of service on cyberspace resources, current/future operating systems, and network devices,u2019 and u2018Data manipulation.u2019 Furthermore, the Air Force is requesting proposals for technologies and concepts for u2018developing capabilities associated with cyberspace warfare attack,u2019 u2018developing and assessing cyberspace capabilities while disconnected from the operational cyberspace domain,u2019 u2018developing capabilities to assess and visualize non-kinetic cyberspace domain effects,u2019 u2018developing capabilities to support rapid implementation of effects-based cyberspace capabilities,u2019 and u2018employing unique characteristics resulting in the adversary entering conflicts in a degraded state.u2019 The solicitation provides a rare glimpse at the kind of information warfare systems that the U.S. military uses and is trying to build in the future. The Department of Defense typically does not discuss these kinds of capabilities publicly. In order to be considered, concept papers must be submitted via registered mail (to ensure their protection) before the end of this year. In cases where submitters believe their concept contains particularly sensitive information, they are urged to contact the AFLCMCu2019s security officer, Michael Gamble. This public announcement comes at something of an odd time considering the outrage in Congress and the ensuing investigation launched by U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder after the New York Times published an article in which anonymous Obama administration officials were quoted saying that the Stuxnet worm had been a U.S. operation.u00a0 Back in April, Ilan Berman, the vice president of the American Foreign Policy Council issued a grave warning [PDF] in a statement to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Homeland Securityu2019s Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Security Technologies as well as the Counterterrorism and Intelligence Subcommittee. u201cOver the past three years, the Iranian regime has invested heavily in both defensive and offensive capabilities in cyberspace. Equally significant,u201d Berman warned, u201cits leaders now increasingly appear to view cyber warfare as a potential avenue of action against the United States.u201d Bermanu2019s words, however serious, are fairly unsurprising considering the almost monthly reports describing new and nearly indefensible malware, like Flame and Gauss. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a6b6cefc42b00293dfb" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "First Ever Joint EU-US Cyber War Game Starts", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/first-ever-joint-eu-us-cyber-war-game-starts-110311/75843/", "Date" : "November 3, 2011 , 3:51 pm", "Article" : "Despite extreme upheaval and rampant infighting caused by the European debt crisis, the EU and U.S. are banding together today in Brussels and shifting its focus toward cyber security. The European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security will be conducting their first ever joint EU-US cyber security exercise. u201cCyber Atlantic 2011,u201d as the event is titled, will be a day-long table-top exercise in which EU and US officials will simulate a cyber-attack on critical infrastructure and explore how the two bodies would react and work together in response to such a crisis. The exercise is similar to the biennial Cyber Storm exercises conducted by the Department of Homeland Security in the U.S. and will test two scenarios. The first scenario imagines a targeted attack that attempts to infiltrate the network of an EU Member State and publish sensitive information found within. In the second scenario, the attack will target SCADA systems in an attempt to disrupt power generation infrastructures. The simulation, part of an EU-US commitment to cyber security agreed upon at a summit in Lisbon in November 2010, will be attended by more than 20 EU Member States, of which 16 will play an active role. The European Commission will direct the event. u201cIt is an honour for ENISA to be facilitating this extremely important milestone in international cyber security cooperation,u201d said ENISAu2019s Executive Director, Professor Udo Helmbrecht, in a statement. These threat-simulations seem to repeat two of the most visible motifs in the security industry over the past couple of years: the APT (or u201cadvanced persistent threatu201d as in the case of the Aurora and RSA attacks) and concerns about the vulnerability of industrial control systems (as in the case of Stuxnet, or anything having to do with critical infrastructure). " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a716cefc42b00293e0a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Report: North Korea Accused Of DDoS Attack On South Korean Airport", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/report-north-korea-accused-ddos-attack-south-korean-airport-060712/76664/", "Date" : "June 7, 2012 , 5:54 pm", "Article" : "North Korean agents have been linked to a malware attack on a South Koreau2019s Incheon International Airport, according to a report from the JoongAng Daily, a South Korean paper. The paper, citing the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency, said that a 39 year-old South Korean man was arrested for involvement in the plot and charged under South Koreau2019s National Security Law for contributing to multiple distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack against the airport in March, 2011. According to the police the man, who has the last name u201cJo,u201d worked as a computer game distributor in South Korea. He allegedly met with agents of North Koreau2019s Reconnaissance General Bureau in China in 2009 to purchase a large quantity of computer games at a steep discount.u00a0Those games, which Jo knew had been infected with some bot malware, were brought back to South Korea and sold to the public. Machines infected by the bot software that was bundled with the game were later used to launch the denial of service attack, the JoongAng Daily reported. JoongAng Daily quotes unnamed police officers saying that they are investigating whether the North planted a Stuxnet-like computer virus on air traffic control system comptuers at Incheon Airport. South Korea has been a frequent target of aggressive cyber attacks from the North, which created the Reconnaissance General Bureau in February, 2009, to head its militaryu2019s cyber operations. Attacks in July, 2009, crippled the Web sites of several major South Korean government agencies.u00a0In July, 2011, another series of denial of service attacks took U.S. military and South Korean government Web sites offline.u00a0 North Korea experts have noted an increasing interest in- and reliance on cyber operations as a way to make the countryu2019s presence felt. In April, 2012, North Korean government radio threatened a wave of u201cspecial actionsu201d by u201crevolutionary armed forcesu201d against the South that some have suggested may presage more cyber attacks from the North. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a726cefc42b00293e0c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Microsoft Mum On Duqu Fix In November", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-mum-duqu-fix-november-110211/75838/", "Date" : "November 2, 2011 , 6:30 pm", "Article" : "Microsoft said that its looking into a reported zero day vulnerability in Windows that was used by the Duqu malware to spread, but isnu2019t committing to a patch for the problem in time for this months scheduled update. u201cMicrosoft is collaborating with our partners to provide protections for a vulnerability used in targeted attempts to infect computers with the Duqu malware,u201d the company said in a statement attributed to Jerry Bryant of the companyu2019s Trustworthy Computing effort. u201cWe are working diligently to address this issue and will release a security update for customers through our security bulletin process.u201d Anti malware firms have been tracking Duqu u2013 an apparent variant of the Stuxnet worm u2013 since mid October, after it was discovered by the CrySyS Lab at the Budapest University of Technology and Economics.u00a0However, it wasnu2019t until last week that researchers analyzing the malware discovered that an installer program for the Trojan horse malware includes an exploit for a previously unknown vulnerability in the Windows kernel. The vulnerability allows remote code execution on vulnerable systems. Symantec researchers found that the installer uses the zero day to gain a foothold in an organization. The attackers then command it to spread to other computers on the infected network. Analysis by Kaspersky Lab researchers has found that the malware has shown up on servers in Iran and Sudan, as well as India, where authorities confiscated Duqu-infected systems last week.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a7b6cefc42b00293e1b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "60 Minutes Weighs Stuxnetu2019s Legacy", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/60-minutes-weighs-stuxnets-legacy-030512/76282/", "Date" : "March 5, 2012 , 3:24 pm", "Article" : "The security community might understand what the Stuxnet worm did. Now the war is over what the worm means u2013 Stuxnetu2019s legacy, if you will. The latest to weigh in on that question is Steve Croft, of the CBS news magazine 60 Minutes.  We knew this story was coming when a 60 Minutes news crew turned up at the S4 Conference in January. The reporters were there to film a presentation by Stuxnet expert Ralph Langner, who was giving a detailed talk on the Stuxnet source code. The report leans heavily on an interview with Langner, as well as Liam Ou2019Murchu of Symantec.u00a0 Among the interesting questions weighed in the CBS report is whether Stuxnet could be qualified as a u201csuccessfulu201d operation, and whether u2013 even if it was u2013 unleashing it was the right way to go. Sean McGurk, Acting Director of the National Cybersecurity and Communications INtegration Center at the Department of Homeland Security, is quoted wondering whether the worm opened a Pandorau2019s Box that will eventually deliver in-kind attacks against U.S. critical infrastructure.u00a0 Check out the whole segment here.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a7e6cefc42b00293e1f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Former NSA Director Calls Stuxnet u201cGood Ideau201d", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/former-nsa-director-calls-stuxnet-good-idea-030412/76280/", "Date" : "March 4, 2012 , 10:03 pm", "Article" : "Former National Security Agency (NSA) Director Ret. General Michael Hayden called the sabotaging of Iranu2019s nuclear program with Stuxnet a u201cgood ideau201d during an interview with u201860 Minutes.u2019 Hayden served as NSA director from 1999 to 2005, and was also director of the CIA from 2006-2009. During the interview, set to air tonight, Hayden told the news show he doesnu2019t know who is behind the malware attack, but noted that the world has u201centered into a new phase of conflict in which we use a cyber weapon to create physical destruction.u201d u201cThis was a good idea, alright? But I also admit this was a big idea, too,u201d Hayden told show correspondent Steve Kroft. u201cThe rest of the world is looking at this and saying u2018Clearly, someone has legitimated this kind of activity as acceptable.'u201d First discovered in 2010, Stuxnetu2019s payload is designed to target Siemensu2019 supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) software. It is widely believed the goal of the malware was to disrupt Iranu2019s uranium enrichment program. While its author remains unknown, much of the speculation has centered on the United States and Israel. The story is slated to air tonight at 7 p.m. on CBS.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a7f6cefc42b00293e21" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Duqu Installer Contains Windows Kernel Zero Day", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/duqu-installer-contains-windows-kernel-zero-day-110111/75833/", "Date" : "November 1, 2011 , 6:33 pm", "Article" : "A newly discovered installer for the Duqu malware includes an exploit for a previously unknown vulnerability in the Windows kernel that allows remote code execution. Microsoft is working on a fix for the kernel vulnerability right now. The exact location and nature of the flaw isnu2019t clear right now. The installer, discovered by researchers at the Hungarian lab that first found Duqu, is a Word document that, once opened, exploits the kernel flaw and then installs the Duqu code on the machine.u00a0In an analysis of the installer and attack, Symantec researchers found that the installer discovered by the CrySyS Lab at the Budapest University of Technology and Economics was specifically written to be useful against one organizationu2019s environment and was only designed to be installed during a period of eight days in August. u201cOnce Duqu is able to get a foothold in an organization through the zero-day exploit, the attackers can command it to spread to other computers. In one organization, evidence was found that showed the attackers commanding Duqu to spread across SMB shares. Interestingly though, some of the newly infected computers did not have the ability to connect to the Internet and thereby the command-and-control (C&C) server. The Duqu configuration files on these computers were instead configured not to communicate directly with the C&C server, but to use a file-sharing C&C protocol with another compromised computer that had the ability to connect to the C&C server. Consequently, Duqu creates a bridge between the networku2019s internal servers and the C&C server. This allowed the attackers to access Duqu infections in secure zones with the help of computers outside the secure zone being used as proxies,u201d Vikram Thakur of Symantec wrote in the analysis of the installeru2019s behavior. Microsoft officials said they are working on a patch for the kernel bug now. u201cMicrosoft is collaborating with our partners to provide protections for a vulnerability used in targeted attempts to infect computers with the Duqu malware. We are working diligently to address this issue and will release a security update for customers through our security bulletin process,u201d Jerry Bryant, group manager of response communications in Microsoftu2019s Trustworthy Computing group said in a statement. There has been a lot of discussion in the security community about the origins and intent of Duqu, with some researchers speculating that it may be somewhat similar to Stuxnet and may have, in fact, been written by the same people. Others have said that the newer malware is unlike Stuxnet in many ways and Duqu is more likely a customizable attack framework designed ot be used as needed in different environments. The discovery of a previously unknown Windows kernel bug in use by Duqu will strengthen the comparisons, as Stuxnet included several Windows zero days. Symantec also said it has found a newer sample of Duqu that is talking to a new command-and-control server that was in Belgium, rather than the original one that was taken offline in India over the weekend. The server in Belgium also has been shut down. The researchers at CrySyS Lab said that they have shared information on the Windows kernel flaw with other organizations. u201cOur lab, the Laboratory of Cryptography and System Security (CrySyS) pursued the analysis of the Duqu malware and as a result of our investigation, we identified a dropper file with an MS 0-day kernel exploit inside. We immediately provided competent organizations with the necessary information such that they can take appropriate steps for the protection of the users,u201d the lab said in a statement. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a816cefc42b00293e24" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "The Vienna Connection? Trying To Stamp Out Flame, Researchers Find Clues To Its Origins", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/vienna-connection-trying-stamp-out-flame-researchers-find-clues-its-origins-060412/76646/", "Date" : "June 4, 2012 , 7:46 pm", "Article" : "Researchers at Kaspersky Lab, domain registrar GoDaddy and OpenDNS have taken steps to cut off Internet access for machines infected with the Flame worm. In the process, the researchers say they uncovered a large and complex command and control infrastructure of more than 80 Web domains and collected clues that put the origins of Flame as early as 2008. Evidence collected from a close analysis of the mysterious malware suggests that Flame is more than three years old and has relied on a huge network of more than 80 command and control Web domains to continue receiving orders from those behind the cyber espionage toolkit, according to posts on Kaspersky Labu2019s research blog, Securelist, and OpenDNS.com. The analysis pointed out significant differences between Flame and earlier, APT-style threats like Stuxnet and Duqu, Kaspersky analyst Aleks Gostev wrote on Monday. For example, while Duquu2019s authors took extraordinary steps to conceal the source of its central command and control server and scripts, Flameu2019s authors were far less careful: dropping control scripts on the dozens of command and control servers that the malware was programmed to consult. u201cThe Duqu attackers were a lot more careful about hiding their activities compared to the Flame operators,u201d Gostev wrote. Flameu2019s authors also purchased and registered their own Web domains, rather than piggybacking their command and control malware on already-compromised domains, as the Duqu authors did. Flame domains were registered by unknown attackers using fake identities like u201cAdrien Leroy,u201d u201cIvan Blixu201du00a0and u201cMaria Weber.u201d Many of the identities were given fake addresses in Germany and Austria, with a big concentration of fake addresses in the Austrian city of Vienna, Gostev wrote.  The decision to register u201ccleanu201d domains for Flame to use allowed researchers to pin down the beginning of the Flame campaign to 2008, said Dan Hubbard of OpenDNS.org. u201cThese domains were not associated with anything prior to being used by (Flame),u201d he told Threatpost. u201cThis is the long tail of the Web.u201d Using clean domains for command and control had clear advantages and may have provided clues to the malwareu2019s origins, but it also had advantages for the attackers, Hubbard said. Because the domains were not infected with other malware or associated with malicious activity, they were unlikely to raise flags from antivirus- or Web filtering software at the target organizations, he said. The groups have succeeded in redirecting requests from infected systems to a DNS u201csinkholeu201d u2013 IP addresses not affiliated with the Flame malware, Hubbard said. In the meantime, the data collected from the Flame systems and from Kaspersky and GoDaddy suggests that the number of systems actually infected with the worm is almost vanishingly small. Hubbard said the daily traffic from Flame systems is u201cvery lowu2026 around 300 to 400 requests per day.u201d Data from the Kaspersky Security Network (KSN) supports that assertion. KSN statistics find just 359 infected systems in the top five most infected countries: Iran (185), Israel and Palestine (95), Sudan (32), Syria (29) and Lebanon (18). Even those numbers may overstate the size of the Flame problem, said Hubbard. Around a quarter of the traffic OpenDNSu00a0now records related to Flame is from fellow security researchers, he said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a876cefc42b00293e31" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Flame Malware Uses Forged Microsoft Certificate to Validate Components", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/flame-malware-uses-forged-microsoft-certificate-validate-components-060412/76642/", "Date" : "June 4, 2012 , 12:00 pm", "Article" : "Microsoft has found that some components of the Flame malware were signed using a forged digital certificate that the attackers were able to create by exploiting a weakness in the way that Microsoftu2019s Terminal Services allows customers to sign code with Microsoft certificates. The company has sent out an update that will remove three untrusted certificates from the Microsoft Trusted Certificate Store and has made a change to the way Terminal Services handles code signing. Flame, which was discovered last week and has been used in a series of targeted attacks against organizations in Syria, Iran and other Middle Eastern countries, has one of its important componentsu2013the updateru2013signed by certificates that were created by the attackers using the vulnerability in Terminal Services. The way that it worked is that when Terminal Services is installed in an environment, it gives customers the ability to authorize the use of Remote Desktop Services on certain machines. During that process, the server will issue certificates to prove that the code comes from Microsoft. The attackers discovered that those certificates also could be used to sign code, and used them to sign the components of Flame. Researchers have found that one component was signed in December 2010. u201cWe have discovered through our analysis that some components of the malware have been signed by certificates that allow software to appear as if it was produced by Microsoft. We identified that an older cryptography algorithm could be exploited and then be used to sign code as if it originated from Microsoft. Specifically, our Terminal Server Licensing Service, which allowed customers to authorize Remote Desktop services in their enterprise, used that older algorithm and provided certificates with the ability to sign code, thus permitting code to be signed as if it came from Microsoft,u201d Microsoftu2019s Mike Reavey wrote in an analysis of the problem. The attackers behind Flame used this vulnerability in order to sign, and therefore legitimize, certain pieces of the attack tool. This is an embarrassing incident for Microsoft, and the company pushed out an emergency update for the issue on Sunday. u201cComponents of the Flame malware were signed with a certificate that chained up to the Microsoft Enforced Licensing Intermediate PCA certificate authority, and ultimately, to the Microsoft Root Authority. This code-signing certificate came by way of the Terminal Server Licensing Service that we operate to issue certificates to customers for ancillary PKI-based functions in their enterprise. Such a certificate could (without this update being applied) also allow attackers to sign code that validates as having been produced by Microsoft,u201d Jonathan Ness from the Microsoft Security Response Center Engineering team, wrote.u00a0 The use of forged or stolen certificates to sign malware is a trick thatu2019s been used for some time now, most notably in both Stuxnet and Duqu, which are seen as the forerunners of Flame. The tactic enables the attacker to get browsers and other applications to trust the signed components of the malware, allowing them to run unimpeded on infected machines. In the case of Flame, the attackers used a certificate issued by Microsoft to sign the updater for the malware, and researchers say that the component was signed on Dec. 28. 2010. Thatu2019s about 18 monhts before the Flame malware was discovered and the stolen certificate uncovered. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a896cefc42b00293e34" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Video: Expert Proves Stuxnetu2019s Link To Iran Nuclear Facilities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/video-expert-proves-stuxnets-link-iran-nuclear-facilities-022412/76253/", "Date" : "February 24, 2012 , 3:12 pm", "Article" : "When Ralph Langner, an independent security researcher, presented his analysis of specialized code used by the Stuxnet worm to an audience of his peers at the S4 Conference in Miami last month, it was a chance to get down in the weeks with one of the worldu2019s top experts on Stuxnet and threats to industrial control system. In his talk, Langner stepped through decompiled code used by Stuxnet and open source intelligence, isolating key lines of code used in the attack and arguing that Stuxnet was designed by industrial control experts with a specific target in mind: the Iranian uranium enrichment facility in Natanz. u201cI can say we now know Stuxnetu2019s target with a confidence of 100 percent,u201d Langner told the gathering of around 60 experts in SCADA and industrial control systems. Now that talk is available online, thanks to the folks at Digitalbond, which organized the S4 event. Check it out.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a8d6cefc42b00293e3e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Flame Malware Raises Need for Open Talk on Use of Cyberweapons", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/flame-malware-raises-need-open-talk-use-cyberweapons-060112/76637/", "Date" : "June 1, 2012 , 2:51 pm", "Article" : "The discovery of the Flame malware has raised a number of questions, some mundane, some interesting and many unanswerable at this point. But the point thatu2019s most interesting also is the one that likely will go unaddressed for the foreseeable future, and that is, the need for a serious, open discussion on the use of cyber weapons. The Stuxnet, Duqu and Flame episodes have stirred up a giant swirl of hyperbole and speculation, both along the lines of sophistication and attribution. A piece in The New York Times today speculates that not only was the United States responsible for creating and deploying Stuxnet, but it was just one part of a comprehensive campaign by the Bush and Obama administrations to disrupt nuclear operations in Iran through the use of offensive security tools. This is something that people in the security community have been talking about since the discovery of Stuxnet, when researchers pointed the finger at the U.S., or possibly Israel, for the attack.u00a0So the idea that one of Iranu2019s stated enemies would have launched Stuxnet against that country isnu2019t much of a stretch.u00a0 u201cIt appears to be the first time the United States has repeatedly used cyberweapons to cripple another countryu2019s infrastructure, achieving, with computer code, what until then could be accomplished only by bombing a country or sending in agents to plant explosives,u201d David E. Sanger wrote in the Times piece. Itu2019s been known that many countries have developed offensive cyber weapons and there have been discussions in the security community about the use of these tools and who may be using them against whom. But the problem is that thereu2019s no public discussion about the existence, let alone the use, of these tools. Obama officials have only referred obliquely to the possibility of offensive security operations in policy documents. Other governments have taken a similar stance, not specifically discussing the use of attack tools and only speaking in generalities when the topic comes up. But, as Steve Bellovin points out, the time has come for an open and frank discussion about the kinds of tools that governments and intelligence agencies are developing and how they can and should be used.u00a0 u201cThe world knows, more or less, what is acceptable behavior in the physical world: what constitutes an act of war, what is spying, what you can do about these, etc. Do the same rules apply in cyberspace? One crucial difference is the difficulty of attribution: itu2019s very hard to tell who launched a particular effort. That in turn means thatu00a0deterrence doesnu2019t work very well,u201d Bellovin wrote in a blog post.u00a0 u201cThere needs to be a national and international debate on this topic. No one is going to supply details of their operations or capabilities, but the simple fact that they exist isnu2019t and shouldnu2019t be a secret. Basic US nuclear doctrine has never been concealed; why should this be different?u201d The answer is, it shouldnu2019t be any different. These weapons already are in use, and as Bellovin says, one looming problem is that the targets and the rest of the world donu2019t know who launched any given attack. No one is standing up to take credit for attacks such as Stuxnet or Duqu, which leads to rampant speculation. That helps no one.u00a0 What would help is for someone in the administration to acknowledge that attack tools are in use, and talk about the circumstances under which theyu2019re being used. Itu2019s easy to find stories with named government and military officials talking about their development of new conventional weapons and they hold massive press events for the unveiling of new fighter planes. But cyber weapons are the orphans, unacknowledged and undiscussed. This isnu2019t 1995 or even 2005 anymore. Letu2019s get on with it. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a926cefc42b00293e48" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "DHS Says No Evidence That Flame Targets Industrial Systems, But Urges Caution", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/dhs-says-no-evidence-flame-targets-industrial-systems-urges-caution-053112/76632/", "Date" : "May 31, 2012 , 4:03 pm", "Article" : "In and advisory, the Department of Homeland Securityu2019s Industrial control System (ICS) CERT said that it doesnu2019t believe the Flame malware targets industrial control systems (ICS) or SCADA systems, but the group advised critical infrastructure owners to be on alert. The advisory, issued Wednesday, describes Flame (aka sKy WIper) as complex malware with many features for spreading and stealing information. However, the agency said it has no evidence that Flame u201cspecifically targets industrial control systems (ICS).u201d The alert also throws cold warning on speculation by some that Flame has similar origins to both the Stuxnet and DuQu worms. u201cInitial analysis by the CrySyS team indicates that SKyWIper has few similarities when compared to Duqu and Stuxnet,u201d the alert reads, citing important early analysis by CrySys Lab at the Budapest University of Technology and Economics. Neither ICS-CERT nor the larger US-CERT organizations have received any reports of Flame infections u2013 not surprising given the low number of infections and the malwareu2019s concentration in two countries: Iran and Hungary. DHS advised organizations that are ICS operators and critical infrastructure operators to isolate control systems from the Internet, and to minimize their exposure to any larger network, and to deploy both firewalls and anti malware software to protect them. Others, notably researchers at Kaspersky Lab, have suggested that both Flame and Stuxnet may be of a similar origin, even though they are separate programs. Among other things, Flame took advantage of many of the same software vulnerabilities used by Stuxnet. And, like Stuxnet, Flame was capable of spreading both by USB, and by exploiting vulnerable network file shares and printers. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a936cefc42b00293e49" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Kelihos Update Includes New TLD and USB Infection Capabilities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/kelihos-update-includes-new-tld-and-usb-infection-capabilities-121112/77299/", "Date" : "December 11, 2012 , 2:28 pm", "Article" : "Thereu2019s a little Michael Myers in the Kelihos botnet; maim it, kill it and it keeps on coming back to wreak more havoc. The 2011 takedown of the Kelihos botnet was one of Microsoftu2019s high-profile success stories against spambots and the like, yet Kelihos was back for more at the start of 2012 using dynamic fast-flux techniques to avoid detection and further shutdowns. As 2012 winds down, Kelihos is still going strong, now relying on double fast-flux domains to spread spam and malware. According to an analysis from a researcher at abuse.ch, Kelihos has also switched top-level domains, moving to .ru from .eu. More insidious, however, is that it now has the ability to spread via removable drives such as USB storage devices. Once this latest update of Kelihos infects a computer, it connects with a .ru domain hosting its command and control looking for updates. The .ru domain is double fast-flux hosted, the researcher, who preferred to not be identified, said. Once an updated version of Kelihos is sent to the infected machine, it will infect any removable drives attached to the computer by exploiting the same vulnerability as Stuxnet. CVE-2010-2568 is a Windows Shell vulnerability that would give an attacker remote access via a malicious .LNK or .PIF shortcut file that is not properly handled by Windows Explorer during icon display. Malware exploiting this vulnerability and CVE-2010-2772 in Siemens WinCC SCADA systems was found in July 2010. The switch to .ru domains happened during the summer, according to the report, and the attackers haveu00a0 a lengthy list of sites from which to send new binaries updating the botnet, all of which are registered to REGGI-RU, a registrar in Russia. The botnet operators, however, are using a registrar in the Bahamas to register the name server domains providing DNS resolution to the Russian domains hosting malware, the site said. u201cKelihos is not easy to shut down since it is using double FastFlux for their malware distribution domains and rely on P2P techniques for botnet communication. So there is no central botnet infrastructure,u201d the researcher said. u201cBy adding the possibility to spread via removable drives, Kelihos also has a very effective way to spread itself across networks and computers even without the need of a central (distribution) infrastructure. Last but not least, the infection binaries associated with Kelihos Iu2019ve seen so far have a very poor AV detection rate.u201d Kelihos boasts up to 150,000 spambots per day, the same level of activity as the Cutwail botnet, which was recently discovered to be spamming out the Gameover variant of the Zeus Trojan. Kelihos remains a prime example of how difficult it is to permanently disable and shut down a botnet that is this profitable. After Septemberu2019s takedown, in which Microsoft and researchers from Kaspersky Labs sinkholed the botnetu2019s command and control, Kelihos was back in business by January. Kaspersky researcher Tillmann Werner said the initial takedown would only be a temporary solution because for legal reasons the security companies could not push an update to the botnet that would disable it. Instead, the peer in the network that was sinkholed was no longer the dominant one, and others eventually began communicating with the compromised machines. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a946cefc42b00293e4b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Gauss, Flame Highlight Problem of Defeating High-End Malware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/gauss-flame-highlight-problem-defeating-high-end-malware-081412/76907/", "Date" : "August 14, 2012 , 12:20 pm", "Article" : "If the last couple of years of life on the Internet have taught us anything it should be that thereu2019s a lot we donu2019t know about whatu2019s happening out there. Sure, we know that there are a lot of attacks going on, metric tons of money being stolen and untold terabytes of data being siphoned off, and once in a while weu2019re even able to figure out whou2019s doing some of it. But, as the discovery of tools such as Flame and Gauss suggests, thereu2019s a lot of stuff bubbling under the surface that mostly goes unseen. Malware obviously is not one of those unknowns. Itu2019s been an issue for 25 years and itu2019s not going anywhere anytime soon. Whenever a new platform emerges, malware makes the jump. A new defensive technology hits the market, and malware adapts. Itu2019s the way of the world. But the mass malware that fills up antimalware databases and shows up in shotgun-style phishing campaigns isnu2019t much of a threat these days anyway. That stuff is handled. Thatu2019s just the top of the massive threat pyramid, though. The truly worrisome activity is what makes up the rest of that pyramid: the custom tools written by professionals with specific targets in mind. In terms of volume, this kind of malware is still far less prevalent than the commodity malware, but if you measure it by potential effect, itu2019s orders of magnitude more threatening. Defining this kind of attack tool is difficult, but if you think of attacks involving tools such as Duqu, Flame and Gauss, youu2019re in the right ballpark. These are tools built by talented developers, written with a specific set of targets in mind and designed to remain undetected on a compromised system for as long as possible. In the cases of Duqu and Flame, the attackers were looking to steal data from target systems, gathering the information from various places and then sending it back to the attackers. They were unconcerned with trying to dig up financial information or stealing banking credentials, for example. When youu2019re after product plans or schematics for the next fighter jet, a banking login is small potatoes. And the teams behind Duqu, Flame and other similar malware are not distracted by small, shiny objects. The exception to this rule seems to be Gauss, the most recently discovered of these tools and the only one that contains functionality to steal banking credentials, as well as PayPal logins. Researchers are unsure whether the tool was used to actually enable the attackers to steal money from victimsu2019 accounts or whether it was used simply to monitor activity in specific accounts in a small number of banks. Either way, Gauss is an outlier in this respect. Whatu2019s truly worrisome when you stand back and look at the threat landscape right now isnu2019t the fact that researchers have discovered all of these tools, itu2019s that there are some unknown number of similar tools at in use right now. For every Stuxnet or Flame that turns up, there likely are dozens or hundreds of analogous tools sitting undetected on systems around the world. There are indications in the Gauss code that itu2019s related closely to Flame and that the team behind the two have other similar projects underway as well. Itu2019s safe to assume that these attackers, whoever they are, have been watching the reaction to the discovery of their creations and making notes about what worked, how the malware was detected and how to do better the next time. The teams behind these tools present a special challenge to defenders, because they do not appear to be constrained by budget, technical resources or other typical roadblocks. If we look at Flame as an example, we see that the attackers had the time, money and cryptographic expertise to find an MD5 hash collision that enabled them to impersonate Windows Update with a forged digital certificate. One researcher, Alex Sotirov, estimated that this attack could have cost the Flame team hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars to achieve. Itu2019s virtually impossible for even the most well-defended organizations to plan for attacks like that.u00a0 And the same holds true for many of these kinds of operations. You do your best, but the chances of keeping these kinds of teams on the other side of the fence are pretty slim. If theyu2019re interested in something you have, theyu2019re likely going to find a way in. If itu2019s not Duqu or Flame or one of their offspring, itu2019ll likely be something else.u00a0 This is where serious cyber espionage attacks diverge from the everyday cybercrime and commodity malware. A cybercrime gang isnu2019t interested in you or your organization; he just wants money. Whether itu2019s your money or the next guyu2019s money, he couldnu2019t care less. It all spends the same. If he canu2019t fool you with a crummy phishing email or drive-by download, thatu2019s ok, because heu2019s using the same tactic on thousands of other potential victims at the same time. Someone will take the bait, probably lots of people, in fact, and thatu2019s all that matters to that class of attacker. But the professional teams (call them governments or state-sponsored actors or whatever term you prefer) spending months or years and possibly millions of dollars on development efforts, those groups want you specifically. They want your data, your product plans, your schematics. Whatever your organization has thatu2019s valuable, thatu2019s what theyu2019re after. If they run up against a roadblock, they donu2019t move on to the next target. They find a way around it or over it or underneath it and, in most cases, theyu2019re going to get what they came for. That doesnu2019t mean that itu2019s time to throw up your hands and admit defeat. That helps no one. Itu2019s more a matter of recognizing that weu2019re only seeing a small percentage of the high-level malicious activity thatu2019s going on. Compromises are going to happen, and the question is whether we recognize the true nature of the threat and start looking for ways to defeat it rather than being distracted by the low hum of everyday attacks. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a9a6cefc42b00293e55" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "India Seizes Equipment Linked to Duqu Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/india-seizes-equipment-linked-duqu-attack-102911/75819/", "Date" : "October 29, 2011 , 5:13 pm", "Article" : "Officials in India have seized components from a server as part of an investigation into the Duqu Trojan, according to a report. According to Reuters, two workers at Web Werks, a web hosting company based in Mumbai, said the countryu2019s Department of Information Technology took the equipment after security vendor Symantec reported the server was communicating with computersu00a0infected with Duqu. First publicized earlier this month, Duqu gained widespread attention due to its similarities with the infamous Stuxnet worm. In their analysis of the malware, researchers at Symantec have contended that Duqu may have been developed to gather information to lay the groundwork for a Stuxnet-style attack on critical infrastructure. While it doesnu2019t contain code specifically targeting industrial control systems, Duqu does have elements in common with Stuxnet.u00a0For example,u00a0Dell SecureWorksu2019 Counter Threat Unit notedu00a0that the kernel drivers for Duqu and Stuxnet utilize many similar techniques in the name of stealth and encryption, such as a rootkit for concealing files. Those techniques however are not unique to either Stuxnet or Duqu, according to the Dell SecureWorksu2019 team. Thus far, security vendors have observed Duqu infections in a number of countries, including Iran and Sudan. The purpose of the malware however remains unclear. Marty Edwards, director of the U.S. Department of Homeland Securityu2019s Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team, told Reuters his agency is working with its counterparts in other countries to uncover more information about the attack. u201cThis one is challenging,u201d Edwards said in an interview with Reuters. u201cItu2019s a very complex piece of software.u201d For the full report, click here foru00a0the Reuters article. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a9f6cefc42b00293e5d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "News Roundup: What The Experts Are Saying About The Flame Worm", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/news-roundup-what-experts-are-saying-about-flame-worm-053012/76624/", "Date" : "May 30, 2012 , 7:00 pm", "Article" : "UPDATE: Are the winds of cyber war blowing, or is the newly discovered Flame worm just a tempest in a teapot? Just days after it was disclosed to the public, the Flame worm is fanning the flames of controversy within the security world. Threatpost takes a look at what people are saying. Calling Tehranu2026 A good place to start with any analysis of Flame and its impact would be with its (presumed) targets: the Iranians. The Islamic Republic, notoriously secretive, has been uncharacteristically open about Flame in recent days. The countryu2019s CERT published a report on Flame on Sunday (May 28th). That post acknowledged the attack, described some of Flameu2019s features and claimed that Iran National CERT had created its own signature for the virus and a removal tool. Iranu2019s CERT says its tool, which was completed in early May, is ready for distribution to organizations at risk of infection, according to a report by the BBC on Tuesday. Reports have speculated that the Flame worm was behind a targeted attack on Iranu2019s Oil Ministry that forced the shut down of key facilities in April. Iran acknowledged the attack at the time, but claimed that no sensitive data was compromised and that the Ministry was well defended against the attacks. In a statement published by the Iranian FARS News Agency, Deputy Oil Minister Hamdollah Mohammadnejad said in early May that the country knew the u201cnature of the attack and the identity of the attackers.u201du00a0Whatu2019s unclear is why it took Iran over a month to develop a cleaning tool for the worm, and why the country was still a hotspot for infections weeks later. Although, if domestic AV vendor Zero Virus is any indication, the Iranian security technology sector is lagging well behind its Western counterparts. How Old Is Flame, Anyway? One question thatu2019s bubbled up amid all the ink spilled on Flame in the last 24 hours is about the origins of the worm. How new u2013 or old u2013 is Flame, anyway? Its a difficult question to answer. As Kaspersky researchers said, the malwareu2019s authors took steps to mask the virusu2019s real origins by backdating the file date on some key components to the mid 1990s (which strains credulity). Other attributes of the malware suggest a more recent vintage, with a number of modules were either created of changed in 2011 and 2012. The security firm Webroot told National Public Radio in the U.S. that it detected a version of Flame as early as 2007 and u201cdidnu2019t think much of it.u201d A report from the folks at the security firm Alienvault tends to support the Webroot line. They say they found clues that point to different components within Flame that are u201cnearly four yearsu201d old, with the main component of the malware dating to August, 2011. u00a0Of course, given the complexity of the malware, everyone can be right here: Kaspersky for putting the creation date for the main components of the worm sometime within the last year or two, and other firms for saying that they detected components used in Flame further back. Cyber weapon, or just malware? The most strident debate in recent days has been over Flameu2019s origin and purpose. Kaspersky researchers have been clear in calling Flame a cyber weapon and, to quote the BBC, an u201cindustrial vacuum cleaner for sensitive information.u201d (Nice!) As Threatpost reported yesterday, an influential early analysis by researchers at CrySyS Lab in Hungary supports that contention, concluding that Flame (which they refer to as u201csKyWIperu201d is the work of a well-funded government. u201cThe results of our technical analysis support the hypotheses that sKyWIper was developed by a government agency of a nation state with significant budget and effort, and it may be related to cyber warfare activities. sKyWIper is certainly the most sophisticated malware we encountered during our practice; arguably, it is the most complex malware ever found,u201d they wrote in their analysis. However, thereu2019s disagreement about that. Webroot isnu2019t convinced Flame is the product of a nation-state actor, but may just be a complex malware toolkit akin to others that are common online. u201cThereu2019s probably multiple authors, but based on the fact that it isnu2019t well armored and is just a static threat, this probably wasnu2019t done by some large organization,u201d Joe Jaroch of Webroot told NPR. And, indeed, there are others within the security community who wonder whether a sophisticated cyber weapon would need to be as large and complex as Flame. But Kaspersky Lab researchers see connections between Flame and both the Stunet and DuQu malware families, with CEO Eugene Kaspersky calling Flame u201canother phase in this (cyber) war.u201d While the code base is different, Flame exploits the same vulnerabilities as Stuxnet to gain a foothold on target networks, and also spreads via the same mechanisms: USB, vulnerable network file shares and printers. That, and the wormu2019s Swiss Army Knife quality suggest that an espionage tool, rather than one aimed at generating profit from stolen data, spam, DDoS attacks or the myriad other illicit online activities. Add to that evidence a public non-denial from Israelu2019s Deputy Prime Minister Moshe Yau2019alon, who told Israeli radio on Wednesday about Flame that u201csuch measures were reasonable for anyone who views Iran as a threatu201d and who then praised Israelu2019s technological capabilities. What does this mean for me?u00a0 The answer to that question depends on who you ask. Commentary on Flame has run the gamut. On the one hand are researchers, including those at (Threatpost corporate parent) Kaspersky Lab who call Flame the u201cmost sophisticated cyber weaponu201d yet and a piece of malware so complex that it may take years to decode. There are others, however, who see Flame as just another example of a long line of complex, modular and sophisticated malware u2013 not all of it associated with espionage. Is Flame really all that different from malware like Agobot, the now-notorious family of bot malware that was common five or six years ago? It remains to be seen. For one thing, researchers havenu2019t yet deciphered all the Flame modules, so they canu2019t say for sure exactly what else the malware might do.u00a0There are also u201cpoliticalu201d motivations to consider. Iran versus Israel and the West, as well as lingering Cold War rivalries. More than one commentator has wondered aloud about the geopolitics of Flame u2013 Kaspersky is a Russian firm, after all, and Russia and the West have been engaged in heated dialog in recent years about how and where to draw the line on cyber warfare. Is that geopolitical struggle echoed in the dire warnings about Flame and talk of cyber weaponry? Some people think so. Its worth noting, however, that Kaspersky is hardly the only company to sound alarms over Flame. U.S. based Symantec has been equally strident in its messaging about the worm. There is reason to be skeptical about all the dire warnings about Flame. For one thing, the number of infected systems worldwide is likely numbered in the thousands, not the tens of thousands or millions that are common with other kinds of malware. And many of those infections are concentrated in two countries: Iran and Hungary. That means most computer users in Europe, North America and Asia have little to fear from the worm. Thereu2019s noted (and reasonable) skepticism about the role that anti malware firms have played in trumpeting news about this new and sophisticated threat. Countless firms have weighed into the fray with u201c[Name that company]u2019s customers are protected from Flameu201d PR blitzes. So what are the lessons of Flame? Roger Thompson at ICSA labs writes that Flame isnu2019t a worst case scenario, by virtue of the fact that it has been discovered and named. u201cThe worst hack is the one you donu2019t know about.u201d One important lesson should be that u201cevery country is trying to do exactly the same thingu201d as whoever, or whatever created Flame. Companies shouldnu2019t ditch their anti malware (which Iranu2019s CERT claims missed the Flame infections on that countryu2019s computers), but they should start supplementing signature based detection with the kinds of network/endpoint behavior and traffic monitoring tools that can spot infections even when the source of the infection is novel, Thompson argues.u00a0 Correction: An earlier version of this story incorrectly identified the ICSA Labs writer as Joe Stewart. Roger Thompson is the author of the ICSA blog post. The story has been corrected. u2013 PFR 5/31/2012 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365aa66cefc42b00293e6b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Flame Malware: Boring, Bloated and Yet Still Effective", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/flame-malware-boring-bloated-and-yet-still-effective-053012/76621/", "Date" : "May 30, 2012 , 3:39 pm", "Article" : "Let us stipulate that governments of all political affiliations are trying to steal information from one another. This is called espionage and it has been happening for thousands of years and the only things that have changed are the tactics and the technology. The discovery of the Flame malwareu2013which looks to be the digital equivalent of a spyu2019s black bagu2013doesnu2019t change any of this, but it does raise one big question, and that is not who is writing tools like Flame, but who isnu2019t? The world is a messy place right now, with economies melting down in Europe, wars sprouting up all over and heinous human rights violations and massacres of civilians by oppressive governments becoming a daily drumbeat. Things are ugly in a lot of places and politicians and government officials around the globe find themselves needing to use any and every tool at their disposal in order to gain some small advantage over their opponents, be they foreign or domestic. It should come as no surprise then that theyu2019re perfectly willing to use offensive security tools as part of their data-gathering and espionage operations. To get an idea of how long operations like these have been going on, read the story of The Cuckoou2019s Egg, which details the exploits of a German hacker hired by the KGB to attack military, university and defense contractor networks in the U.S. to steal data related to nuclear and satellite defense systems. That was in 1986. Malware such as Flameu2013if it truly was designed as a spy toolkit, as researchers believeu2013 offer a number of advantages for governments and intelligence agencies that human assets and other tools do not. People, even highly trained and skilled ones, have weaknesses such as emotions, monetary and physical needs and biases and that can compromise their ability to do their jobs. They also have the unfortunate ability to speak, which means they may betray their mission or employers, either intentionally or accidentally.u00a0 Malware has none of these limitations. You pick a set of targets, surveill them for weaknesses, exploit those weaknesses and install the malware and then sit back and wait for the data to start flowing. Of course, you need someone to write the attack tool in the first place, but there are plenty of good hackers available for that task. And because attribution is so difficult for malwareu2013even highly specialized tools such as Stuxnetu2013the chances of an attack being pinned conclusively on a given country are quite low. Speculation may point to one potential or another, but proving who unleashed something like Flame is no small task. Thatu2019s the beautiful thing about attacks like this for those on the offensive side: Not only do they have plausible deniability, they have actual deniability. Unless someone comes forward years down the road and says, Hey, I wrote Flame/Stuxnet/Duqu on contract for Israel/America/Iran, weu2019ll likely never know for sure where these tools originated. The best we can hope for is a good technical analysis and inferences of authorship based on target lists, and thatu2019s not much use in the real world. The majority of known victims for Flame so far are in Iran, Israel and Palestine, three countries that have more than their share of enemies, so the list of potential attackers is long. Figuring out who wrote Flame may be important for the intelligence agencies and forensics investigators in the victim countries and organizations, but for the rest of the world itu2019s just an interesting morsel of information. The most interesting piece here is that Flame, in some form, likely has been active for five years, and possibly longer, without being identified for what it was. Thatu2019s a fairly impressive feat for any piece of malware. As analysis has continued on Flame, researchers have found that the malware has a huge number of modules and pieces, but that it seems solely focused on gathering and exfiltrating data. It wasnu2019t designed to sabotage a nuclear facility or anything that exotic; just straight up theft. And so perhaps the early lesson from the Flame malware episode is that not every operation requires an ultra-sophisticated tool. Sometimes, a boring, bloated piece of malware like Flame will do just fine. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365aa96cefc42b00293e6f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Gauss Malware, Descended From Flame and Stuxnet, Found On Thousands of PCs in Middle East", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-gauss-malware-descended-flame-and-stuxnet-found-thousands-pcs-middle-east-080912/76892/", "Date" : "August 9, 2012 , 1:31 pm", "Article" : "A new piece of malware dubbed Gauss, that experts say is a direct descendant of Flame and also related to Stuxnet and Duqu, has been found on thousands of PCs in the Middle East, mostly in Lebanon. Gauss contains some of the same code as Flame, but is markedly different in a number of respects, specifically in its ability to steal online banking credentials and has an encrypted payload that experts havenu2019t yet been able to crack. Researchers say that Gauss is almost certainly the work of the same team that wrote the Flame malware, which they speculate is a state-sponsored group. Gauss is built on the same platform as Flame and has some of the same attributes, including the ability infect USB sticks connected to compromised machines. Researchers discovered the Gauss infections earlier this year during the investigation into the Flame attacks and estimate that there are about 2,500 infections so far. While looking at the various modules of Flame, researchers found one that didnu2019t quite match up with the rest of the tool and began looking into it further. What they found was a series of other modules, similar to Flame, some of which were already detected by antimalware products, and others that were not. Gauss, like Flame, has a modular architecture and contains a number of pieces that perform discrete tasks. The tool is capable of stealing browser cookies and passwords, steal account information for social networks and IM applications, intercept online banking credentials for a handful of Middle Eastern banks as well as PayPal and Citibank and infect USB drives with a data-stealing module. When a clean USB thumb drive is connected to a Gauss-infected PC, the malware will copy itself to the USB drive. Then, when the drive is connected to a clean PC, the Gauss malware will run from the USB drive and collect whatever data it can from the new machine, which then is retrieved from the drive when itu2019s inserted into a Gauss-infected computer.u00a0 This complex routine led researchers to speculate that Gauss may have been designed to infiltrate a specific kind of network. u201cIt may have been built with an air-gapped network in mind,u201d said Roel Schouwenberg, a senior malware researcher at Kaspersky Lab, which discovered Gauss and assisted in the investigation into Flame earlier this year. Air gaps are physical separations of machines on a network, often used in military and other sensitive environments as a way to keep machines housing classified data isolated or to prevent attackers from moving from one machine to another. Gauss has a lot of similarities to its malicious predecessors, and researchers are confident that it is the handiwork of the same group that wrote Flame at a minimum, and likely Duqu and Stuxnet as well. u201cBased on our analysis and the timestamps from the collected malware modules, we believe the Gauss operation started sometime around August-September 2011. This is particularly interesting because around September 2011, the CrySyS Lab in Hungary announced the discovery of Duqu. We do not know if the people behind Duqu switched to Gauss at that time but we are quite sure they are related: Gauss is related to Flame, Flame is related to Stuxnet, Stuxnet is related to Duqu. Hence, Gauss is related to Duqu,u201d Kaspersky Lab researchers said in a statement on the new malware.u00a0 Right now, the malwareu2019s infrastructure is dormant and researchers said that the command-and-control system for the malware went offline last month. There are five C&C servers that were in use during the time that Gauss was active, and they were separate from the much larger C&C system used by Flame. Named after the German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss, the new malware, like Flame, Duqu and Stuxnet before it, is somewhat of a mystery at the moment, in a number of respects. Researchers are not sure how the malware spreads or infects machines, although it does have a the same capability to infect USB sticks and exploits the same LNK vulnerability that both Stuxnet and Flame did. That turned out to be just one of the methods that Stuxnet used to compromise a new machine, and there may well be others yet to be discovered in Gauss, as well. It does not look as though Gauss uses any zero day vulnerabilities to infect PCs, but researchers are still unsure how the malware initially infects a new machine. u201cItu2019s important to mention that Gauss infects USB sticks with a data stealing component that takes advantage of the same .LNK (CVE-2010-2568) vulnerability exploited by Stuxnet and Flame. At the same time, the process of infecting USB sticks is more intelligent and efficient. Gauss is capable of u2018disinfectingu2019 the drive under certain circumstances, and uses the removable media to store collected information in a hidden file. The ability to collect information in a hidden file on USB drives exists in Flame as well. Another interesting component of Gauss is the installation of a custom font called Palida Narrow. The purpose of this font installation is currently unknown,u201d Kasperskyu2019s researchers said. The payload that Gauss delivers also is a mystery. The main payload is encrypted using a key thatu2019s derived from a series of variables taken from the system itu2019s on and researchers havenu2019t been able to decrypt the file at this point. Aside from the data-stealing and banker Trojan functionality thatu2019s already known, there could be other hidden functionality in Gauss that havenu2019t yet come to light. u201cGauss is much more multi-faceted I would say than Stuxnet, which had one particular goal,u201d Schouwenberg said. u201cThis is more about surveillance than espionage. We donu2019t necessarily think theyu2019re trying to steal any money, but maye just monitor whatu2019s happening in these accounts.u201du00a0 One of the other interesting aspects of Gaussu2019s discovery is its geographic distribution. The huge majority of the infected machinesu20131,660 of themu2013are located in Lebanon. Other Middle Eastern countries, including Israel and Palestine, also show infections, but not nearly as many as Lebanon. Gauss is the latest in what has become an ever-expanding group of attack tools that researchers have classified as cyberweapons, or malware specifically designed by governments or government-sponsored groups to target foreign governments. Stuxnet was the first and most famous of these and was written specifically to compromise the machines running an Iranian nuclear facility. Next came Duqu, a similar tool with a broader target base that researchers said was closely related to Stuxnet and likely produced by the same team. When Flame appeared earlier this year, it signaled a change in the landscape, as researchers found that the malware used a novel spreading technique that involved using a forged Microsoft digital certificate in order to impersonate a Windows Update server. Now comes Gauss, the latest member of the Stuxnet-Duqu-Flame family tree, armed with an encrypted payload and an odd proclivity to steal online banking credentials. Thatu2019s aberrant behavior for a tool allegedly designed by a government, but as the payload, and therefore the malwareu2019s ultimate goal, are unknown at this point, the financial component to Gauss may become clear as time goes on. u201cThey really went to a lot of trouble to make it hard to break the crypto on Gauss. Weu2019re keeping in mind the possibility of a destructive payload for ICS or SCADA systems,u201d Schouwenberg said. u201cMaybe itu2019s a side effect of the encrypted payload that no one will be able to copy and paste the code like they could with Stuxnet. Maybe they tried to learn some lessons from Stuxnet.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365aab6cefc42b00293e74" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Poll Finds Security Practitioners Falsely Believe Theyu2019re Protected Against APTs", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/poll-finds-security-practitioners-falsely-believe-theyre-protected-against-apts-080812/76894/", "Date" : "August 9, 2012 , 2:48 am", "Article" : "If a recent poll of 1,000 security professionals is any indication, there remains a significant learning gap in understanding advanced persistent threats u2013 and therefore building a strong defense to resist them. The survey conducted by FireEyeu2019s Malware Intelligence Lab showed nearly 60 percent of practitioners polled believed their company was protected from APTs and an even higher percentage (65 percent) believedu00a0the latestu00a0antimalware tools could defend such attacks. But when the researchers drilled down to a specific attack u2014 e-mail-based spear phishing u2014 more than half of the security professionals werenu2019t convinced their current tools could prevent such anu00a0attack. u201cWith this insight in hand, we can only assume that most practitioners are still learning how best to address the problem that advanced targeted attacks present,u201d the researchers wrote in a blog post. Part of the issue lies in fully understanding what constitutes an APT in order to marshal the correct response. Though high-profile APTs like the highly sophisticated Stuxnet and Flame malware appear to target governments and political groups, other APTs are utilized for corporate espionage. Earlier this summer in SC Magazine, FireEyeu2019s senior security researcher Alex Lanstein outlined three characteristics of APTs. Those stealth-based characteristics include: Without more education and awareness, the newest report said,u00a0 IT security professionals may have a false sense of security when it comes to warding off such attacks. u201cThe challenge is real, and what is clear to us is that many security professionals still have a blurry understanding of how to best protect their organizations from advanced attacks,u201d according to the post on poll findings. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365aae6cefc42b00293e7a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "The Mystery of Duqu: Part Two", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/mystery-duqu-part-two-102611/75802/", "Date" : "October 26, 2011 , 1:56 pm", "Article" : " Our investigation and research of Duqu malware continues. In our previous report, we made two points: Besides those key points, we concluded that unlike the massive Stuxnet infections, Duqu attacks are limited to an extremely small number of targets. But before informing you about our new findings, I would like to pay tribute to the Hungarian research laboratory Crysys for their work. They were the first who analyzed Duqu components and generated an excellent report. It was later provided to antivirus vendors and became the basis of further investigations. (Unfortunately, our company was not the first to receive this report, but now itu2019s even more interesting to find out everything about Duqu) Our experts continue to conduct in-depth analysis of all Duqu components, and are finding more evidence of similarities between Duqu and Stuxnet. A detailed report with our expertsu2019 analysis of files and their structure is in progress and will be published later. This part of our research is not the most urgent. It is much more important to understand the details of the attacks and the facts, which will be discussed here. Real incidents In our previous blog, we mentioned that in the previous 24 hours, we had found only one real incident after adding the detection of all known Duqu components. Since that incident, we have discovered more, and it allows us to make some conclusions about the attack vector itself. It is important to mention that we can neither confirm nor deny information from other AV vendors about reported incidents in the UK, USA and possibly in Austria and Indonesia. We are making no comment on possible incidents in Hungary. Letu2019s focus only on cases weu2019ve discovered with the help of Kaspersky Security Network. Incident #1: Sudan One of the first real infection cases took place in a somewhat distinctive region, as we confirmed earlier. It happened in Sudan.  In this case, we found a completely new driver which differs from previous variants in both name and MD5. Based on our finding that the main Duqu module consists of three components (driver, DLL library and configuration file), we may speculate that two more files are a part of the package. But we havenu2019t observed any detections in our customer base with our current detection set. It means that these files are different from known examples (netp191/192.pnf, cmi4432/cmi4464.pnf). Unfortunately, we were not able to connect with the infected user for a detailed analysis and research effort for this incident. Also, we donu2019t have a copy of the adp55xx.sys driver. We know only the file name, size and checksum at this point. Incident #2: Iran At the moment, the highest number of Duqu incidents have been recorded in Iran. This fact brings us back to the Stuxnet story and raises a number of issues. But first, letu2019s look into some details.  We see the same situation: a new unique file name (iraid18.sys), an already known file size (24960 bytes) and a new checksum. But besides those three static file characteristics, there are some differences. We found not only a new driver, but also a new configuration file ird182.pnf. Doubtless, itu2019s analogous to known files (same size 6570 bytes) but some of the content is different, making this file unique. It stores information about the infection date in order to control further uninstall processes. Another driver is even more interesting. We were not able to restore its original name. And, despite being the same size as previous Duqu drivers, it is also different from iraid18.sys, which was also found at the infected location. It is different from all previously known drivers. At this point, we see an almost complete new set of modules with similar names: iraid18.sys + ird182.pnf + unknown main DLL library (which we suspect may have a name like ird181.pnf). Incident #3: Iran  This incident is one of the most interesting. Here we have an infection of two systems connected to each other. Besides the fact that these systems are in one network, they were also infected with the same driver (new again) u2013 igdkmd16b.sys. We were able to obtain a copy of this file:  Note that before this incident, we had never seen a file with the size 25088 bytes. Until this case, we have only seen drivers with the size of 24960 bytes (without a digital signature) or 29568 bytes (with a digital signature). In addition, we found two more files on one of the systems (unfortunately, we werenu2019t able to get a copy of these files). The first file is a configuration file with the name netq795.pnf and the second file is an unknown driver with the same size of 25088 bytes, but with the different checksum. As in incident #2, here we also have an almost complete new set of modules: igdkmd16b.sys + netq795.pnf + unknown main DLL library (which we suspect may have a name like netq794.pnf). Incident #4: Iran  As in all the incidents described above there is a unique driver which differs from previous ones both in name (bpmgs.sys) and in size (24832 bytes). Unfortunately, we werenu2019t able to get a copy of the file and its content is still a mystery. The same goes for its corresponding configuration file. At the same time, we discovered a fact that is probably not related to this Duqu case. BUT! This computer was recently subjected to network attacks on October 4 and October 16. Both attacks used an exploit abusing the MS08-067 vulnerability (e.g. which was used by Kido and Stuxnet). The IP address of the attacker is 63.87.255.149 (in both cases). It is owned by MCI Communications Services, Inc., a subdivision of Verizon Business. So, imagine the situation. Two attacks in a 12-day period from one IP address. What is the probability that this attack was automatically performed by Kido? It is possible in the case of a single attack. It is impossible in the case of two attacks. It strongly suggests that these attacks were not accidental, but targeted. It is possible that the attacker used not only MS08-067 but also other exploits that were not traced. Conclusions and fact " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365aaf6cefc42b00293e7d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Whatu2019s the Meaning of This: Flame Malware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/whats-meaning-flame-malware-052912/76615/", "Date" : "May 29, 2012 , 1:34 pm", "Article" : "From all indications, it would appear that attackers are continuing to attack and malware authors are carrying on writing malware. The latest bit of evidence to support these conclusions is the discovery of the Flame malware, which, initial analyses show, is an advanced data-stealing tool that is being used in targeted attacks against organizations in Iran, Syria and Palestine, and has experts speculating that Flame was built by a Western intelligence agency or military. The existence of Flame was revealed on Monday, but the tool apparently has been in existence for more than two years (or possibly five years) and has infected several hundred organizations in various countries in the Middle East. The initial infection vector is still unclear and itu2019s not known for sure whether Flame uses any perviously unknown vulnerabilities in Windows or other applications. What is known is that Flame is a rather large, complex and well put together piece of malware that follows in the famous footsteps of both Stuxnet and Duqu. However, researchers are being quite careful to differentiate Flame from its predecessors, both in scope and construction, and say that the newer tool is likely unrelated to either Stuxnet or Duqu. In fact, it looks like Flame has far more differences from Stuxnet and Duqu than similarities. Flame has nearly two dozen separate components, many of which are designed specifically to steal various kinds of information from infected machines. The malware can record audio from the microphone, take screenshots of certain applications and then upload all of that data to a remote command-and-control server via an SSL-encrypted connection. There are other pieces of malware that have these capabilities and the ability to take screenshots and upload them to remote servers is not unique to Flame. Several remote administration tools such as BO2K and backdoors have employed similar tactics for years. But, theu00a0combination of the malwareu2019s capabilities, along with its target list, leads researchers to believe that Flame was designed and built by a government rather than a cybercrime crew. u201cCurrently there are three known classes of players who develop malware and spyware: hacktivists, cybercriminals and nation states. Flame is not designed to steal money from bank accounts. It is also different from rather simple hack tools and malware used by the hacktivists. So by excluding cybercriminals and hacktivists, we come to conclusion that it most likely belongs to the third group. In addition, the geography of the targets (certain states are in the Middle East) and also the complexity of the threat leaves no doubt about it being a nation state that sponsored the research that went into it,u201d Aleks Gostev, chief security expert at Kasperky Lab, wrote in an analysis of Flame. The researchers at CrySyS Lab in Hungary, who first discovered Duqu, agreed that Flame, which they call sKyWIper, is the work of a well-funded government. u201cThe results of our technical analysis support the hypotheses that sKyWIper was developedu00a0by a government agency of a nation state with significant budget and effort, and it may beu00a0related to cyber warfare activities.u00a0sKyWIper is certainly the most sophisticated malware we encountered during our practice;u00a0arguably, it is the most complex malware ever found,u201d they wrote in their analysis. So what does the discovery of Flame mean in the grand scheme of malware, cyberwar and offensive security operations?u00a0It means exactly what you think it means: Government agencies around the world are building and deploying tools to attack one another. This is not new information, but itu2019s important to be reminded of it every once in a while for a couple of reasons. First, people need to understand that these kind of operations are happening on a regular, ongoing basis and that, while attack tools such as Stuxnet and Duqu are scary, theyu2019re not unique. Flame, Duqu and Stuxnet are just the ones that we know about. Second, the discovery of Flame after two or five or eight years of use should remind us that the defenses most organizations have in place right now are of little use for detecting custom threats and tools. Defense is hard, and defending against a team with the time, money and motivation to compromise a select group of targets is no oneu2019s idea of a good time. The discovery of Flame illustrates this point perfectly. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ab26cefc42b00293e83" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Worm Tries AutoRun, Then Social Engineering to Infect", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/worm-tries-autorun-then-social-engineering-infect-113012/77265/", "Date" : "November 30, 2012 , 4:10 pm", "Article" : "Sophos and TrendMicro, and anumber of other security firms, are reporting a dramatic increase in the prevalence of a worm using AutoRun and social engineering to proliferate. If you thought Microsoft solved the AutoRun problem, you arenu2019t alone. They tried to shut it down after it was famously and cleverly used to spread earlier variants of the Stuxnet worm that targeted the industrial control systems that controlled centrifuges at Iranu2019s Natanz nuclear enrichment facility. However, as we continue to move further and further from that date, and we continue to see the word AutoRun popping up in headlines, it is increasingly becoming one of those network security nuisances that just wonu2019t go away. Part of the problem here, according to Sophos, is that users still arenu2019t very good about patching their machines. Itu2019s the same, simple old problem that never seems to change. Despite the fact that Microsoft shipped a patch to disable AutoRun nearly two years ago, some users still havenu2019t gotten around to implementing it. So the worm is spreading, in large part, through autorun.inf files loaded onto removeable media and writeable network shared. As for those who have Windows 8, on which AutoRun was never a feature, or those who did implement the patch to disable it, TrendMicro claims that WORM_VOBFUS (or W32/VBNA-X, as Sophos calls it) is propagating using another old social engineering trick: sex. They claim that variants of the worm are spreading around Facebook using filenames like u2018sexy.exeu2019 and u2018porn.exeu2019 to ensnare its victims. While Sophos doesnu2019t touch on the Facebook angle, its explanation for how the worm is spreading in a world mostly rid of AutoRun almost identical to TrendMicrou2019s. Despite PCu2019s ignoring autorun.inf files picked up on removable media or from some other infection method, the worm creates a number of seemingly benign looking but ultimately malicious folders and merely waits for some unwitting user to click them. Once the infection takes place, according to Sophos, the malware performs all the usual operations. It phones home to its command and control server, receives instructions for downloading further payloads, and then, at least in the case that Sophos looked at, downloads a banking trojan from the Zeus family, and tries to steal its victimu2019s money in one way or the other. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365aca6cefc42b00293eb3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Using Stuxnet and Duqu as Words of Mass Disruption", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/using-stuxnet-and-duqu-words-mass-disruption-102011/75781/", "Date" : "October 20, 2011 , 5:42 pm", "Article" : "The Internet is under assault by a highly sophisticated cyber weapon called Duqu designed by digital warriors to wreak cyber-havoc on the critical cyber-infrastructure of the Western world. Or else it isnu2019t. The emergence of Duqu this week has been accompanied by a huge amount of speculation and discussion about the malware being a direct descendant of Stuxnet. There are some key pieces of evidence in the makeup and behavior of Duqu, as well as the circumstances of its discovery, that have led many people to jump to the conclusion that the two malware samples are indeed somehow related. Specifically, there is some code in the main Duqu module that is nearly identical to bits of code in Stuxnet, and researchers have found that the structure of the two is also quite similar. Both Duqu and Stuxnet utilize a modular architecture that comprises a main module with a driver or set of drivers that injects a DLL into system processes. There also is a DLL that includes another module and some code to connect to a command-and-control server, and a configuration file. Stuxnet also includes a separate component that is the payload, and that payload could be swapped out for a different one at any point. Duqu, on the other hand, does not include that payload, but instead has a completely separate component that is basically a keylogger. One other key similarity is that both Stuxnet and Duqu make use of stolen digital certificates to sign one or more of their drivers, a technique that can help the malware components evade detection. But thatu2019s about as far as the similarities go. Do those pieces of evidence, taken together, prove that Duqu is indeed the spawn of Stuxnet, or that it was even written by the same group who created Stuxnet? No. Nor does it in any way indicate that Duqu was meant to be used as a weapon to disrupt the operation of industrial control systems or other systems linked to critical infrastructure. In fact, Duqu doesnu2019t include any components capable of attacking ICS machines. What the available evidence shows is that both Stuxnet and Duqu were designed to be quite stealthy and compromise specific types of systems. For its part, Stuxnet clearly was built with the singular goal of attacking specific PLCs in mind. It accomplished this goal, but because of some unforeseen events, the worm also made its way to some Windows machines and began spreading on consumer PCs, which hastened its detection. Duqu also was built with a specific goal in mind, researchers say, but itu2019s not so clear yet what that goal might be. u201cUnlike Stuxnet, which infected many systems but looked for a specific target, Duqu infects a very small number of very specific systems around the world, but may use completely different modules for every system. Moreover, at the moment no one has found the installation file (dropper), which has to be the first link in the infection chain u2013 responsible for both the driver and DLL installation. This file might be a worm and use various exploits. This file is the key to solving the Duqu puzzle,u201d Aleks Gostev, chief malware expert at Kaspersky Lab wrote in his thoroughu00a0analysis of Duqu. Itu2019s entirely possible that Duqu is the work of the same group that wrote Stuxnet. In fact, many researchers say thatu2019s the most plausible theory, given that the Stuxnet source code is not publicly available. Another, less likely, scenario is that the Stuxnet authors were somehow compromised themselves and the Stuxnet code was taken and reused. But, in some ways, itu2019s not really important who wrote Duqu. One would assume that the Stuxnet authors, having been successful in their attempt to use Stuxnet to compromise a nuclear facility in Iran, might take on another assignment. Researchers say that there are several known variants of Duqu in the wild right now, and thereu2019s no way of knowing how many others might be circulating, quietly going to work. Whatu2019s more important in all of this is that in the current climate, simply invoking the name of Stuxnet immediately triggers a set of assumptions and conclusions about the nature of the threat. Saying that Duqu or any other piece of malware is the u201cson of Stuxnetu201d or the like implies that the malware is designed to be a targeted weapon and has overtones of the often hysterical discussions about cyberwar. One need only glance at the headlines in the mainstream press about Duqu to see how quickly this happens. As such highly targeted attacks become more and more prevalent and the topic of electronic warfare and espionage gains more currency in the popular culture, those in the security community who understand the nature and seriousness of these threats and attacks should take itu00a0upon themselves to be careful about using Stuxnet as the basis for comparison. It clouds the issue and drowns out any substantive discussions that might take place. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365acb6cefc42b00293eb5" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "UPDATE: Why Stuxnet-Like Attacks Arenu2019t Going Away", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/why-stuxnet-attacks-arent-going-away-012912/76148/", "Date" : "January 29, 2012 , 11:30 am", "Article" : "Ralph Langner is the closest thing to a rock star that you get in the Dockers and pocket-protector world of industrial control systems. The German researcher made headlines in 2010 as among the first security experts to analyze parts of the Stuxnet wormu2019s code devoted to manipulating programmable logic controllers by Siemens, and the first to explicitly link the Stuxnet malware with an effort to disable Iranu2019s uranium enrichment operation.  Since then, Langner he has been quoted in countless articles and on TV. He was profiled (peevishly) in Vanity Fair (a piece that prompted a hillarious, written response from Langner) and spoken at the uber-hip TED Conference. These days, Langner is keeping busy with Langner Communications, his consulting firm which works with ICS vendors and their customers on security issues. And heu2019s also keeping in the spotlight. Threatpost caught up with Langner at the recent S4 Conference, an annual gathering of the leading researchers in industrial control system security in Miami. Langner always looms large at the conference and others like it, including WeissCon, a Washington D.C. Conference where, in 2010, Langner unveiled some of the first details of his analysis of Stuxnet.u00a0  And so he did this year, taking attendees through an analysis of Stuxnet code used to manipulate Siemens PLCs, promoting a new book and trailing a camera crew from the prime time TV news show 60 Minutes. I caught a ride with Langner in his rented Mercedes (he says heu2019d have preferred a Corvette) and, later, at the Conference. These are excerpts from our conversations.  Threatpost: Weu2019ve seen in the last year Stuxnet variants like Duquu00b8 and other malware that seems to use aspects of the Stuxnet code. What do you think is going to be the legacy of this malware? Is it going to become a platform similar to, say, the Zeus malware or is it just going to kind of fade away? Ralph Langner: Well, this wonu2019t go away. This wonu2019t fade away. When I heard about the discovery in respect to (Stuxnet variant) Tilded, I would say I was by no means surprised. I was actually expecting that, because this is such a high profile operation, such a level of sophistication that I had bet that the attackers have been working on this u2013 so that this was a long-term approach attempt that they have been working on this for a couple of years u2013not specifically on Stuxnet, but just to build up offensive cyber attack capability. And so if you really wanna do that, what we now see is actually what you would try to achieve.u00a0 You want to create a set of reusable tools. I mean, reusability is a big thing in software development, and certainly also applies to sophisticated cyber attackers. So these guys are pros, and they are just using the latest technology and architecture. So this didnu2019t surprise me at all. And it would also not surprise me if it would see an attack executed by the very same group, just targeting completely different product base.u00a0So, for example, doing something against Rockwell, PLCs, or doing something against Areva safety controllers that are used in the nuclear industry. This would not surprise me at all because if youu2019re doing work at this level of sophistication, you have all the experience, the architectures, the strategy that can be used against any industrial control system target. So this is, in a way, not really about Siemens products, and I think there are many people who pointed that out aleady. Threatpost: The thing that seems concerning here is Stuxnet sets the precedent that there may be malware out there targeting ICS systems that is either dormant or that is slow u2013 that is kind of manipulating the reality that operators of this equipment are living in, but doing so in a really subtle way over a long period of time. So it would seem like one of the issues that the community needs to talk about u2013 to really address this head onu2013 is this idea of provability, right, that being able to prove that the reality that is being presented by a device is actually whatu2019s going on, on the device. Ralph Langner: Yeah, that youu2019re actually u2013 to recognize that you were under attack. Thatu2019s a big issue that thatu2019s a very good point. And so there are some people in the community who argue that we need better forensics. That might be true, but I think what is even more important, letu2019s start with the capability to actually detect that youu2019re under attack. This is where it all starts. And I would say that major installations and critical infrastructure really are not prepared for this. So when they would be attacked, it would probably take a year until they notice, which is exactly what we have seen in the case of Stuxnet. Threatpost: Sure. Well, and one of the classic arguments is that, well, they donu2019t have any virus or they donu2019t have intrusion detection tools because those introduce too much latency and require too much maintenance and theyu2019re going to hurt availability. Ralph Langner: Yeah, but wait a second. Antivirus wouldnu2019t have helped because you didnu2019t have a signature for this specific malware, and for the next attack of this caliber, you also will not have a signature, so this wouldnu2019t help very much. Threatpost: Right, although, IDS (intrusion detection system) may have picked it up. (Langner looks askance.) You donu2019t think so? Ralph Langner: I donu2019t think so, no. We presently donu2019t have IDSs that would have detected this. We might, so from a technology point of view, you certainly can design a product that would be capable of doing this. But so far, we havenu2019t seen it. Itu2019s not available on the marketplace. As a matter of fact, we start to offer a product which goes into that direction a couple of years ago, but guess what? It didnu2019t sell [laughs] because our customers were thinking, u201cWell, yeah, that sounds like a good idea, but then on the other hand, who would attack us and blah, blah, blah.u201d Threatpost: So the perception of threat is still pretty low, in your opinion? Ralph Langner: Yes. I think there are probably some more basic things that need to be done, and if you really want to be able to probably respond to a cyber attack. So for example, when you just think about your operating a power plant. How would the operators u2013 or letu2019s first start with another issue. So look at major installations and critical infrastructure. The point is, I havenu2019t seen really solid contingency plans for cyber attacks. So point is that the operators and maintenance stuff, management, et cetera, would pretty much have to improvise on how to handle the sophisticated attack. And this might get nasty. One thing that I would suggest u2013 Threatpost: Nasty in terms of what they would need to do to respond to it? Ralph Langner: No. They would just run out of time. So they would just make a situation worse by not responding properly to it. And this is another area where we try to train and educate our clients to just include contingency procedures against cyber attacks in to that training. So, for example, when you operate a nuclear power plant, your operators are trained on simulators because in a nuclear power plant, you really, as an operator, you have letu2019s say, kind of a lazy job because nothing really happens. And so the problem is once you would get hit by a cyber attack, how would you notice this? And how would you respond? This is an issue that I think is important to include in training and itu2019s also a point to underline that technical solutions alone wonu2019t do the trick. Threatpost: It also seems to be the case, though, that unlike the world if enterprise networking and LANS and WANS that the deployment scenarios in the industrial control sector are really incredible varied, right? It is manufacturing. It is energy distribution. It is any number of different things. So, while the security community for networking can always more or less assume what the context is, in industrial control, you canu2019t really do that, right? Ralph Langner: Oh, no, I disagree. Threatpost: You donu2019t think so? Ralph Langner: Actually, itu2019s much more simple than what you have just said. So Iu2019ve been in this field for over a decade now, and one funny experience that I made is that there are only very, very slight differences across various industries. So you canu2019t really predict security problems or a good security posture by looking at the industry. So we find pretty similar stuff throughout the place, throughout various industries. By the way, this is certainly affected by the high number of general-purpose products like the Siemens controllers that we have been talking about, because they are generic, so you can use the very same product to enrich uranium, or to drive an elevator. Iu2019m not kidding. So youu2019ll find these products in elevators, too, in building automation. And then, therefore, you find the same set of security problems all over the place. And one thing certainly has to be underlined, also, this is, again, also when weu2019re talking about vendors, this is not a specific vendor issue. The only problem I have with this particular vendor, Siemens, is that they were just pretending they were doing everything right. We would be much better off if they would just say, u201cOkay, our parts are not secure. But thatu2019s not our fault because nobody really asked for it.u201d So somebody like me would say, u201cHey, Siemens. Thatu2019s great. That helps us. Thatu2019s good news,u201d because customers are no longer under the impression that everythingu2019s fine and dandy, and that they donu2019t have to care about anything.u00a0But what I wanted to point out is we have a much larger cultural issue because the roots of this development that led to pretty much zero security on the plant floor, have one simple cause. This all comes from electrical engineering. And electric engineering has a completely different approach and mindset, which is something I try to elaborate on in my book. So as an electrical engineer, letu2019s just say you have a hard time understanding what the fuss is all about in terms of cyber security because for you, it might not appeal as real, something real. Because real is electrical current that you can measure.u00a0 Stay tuned for part II of our interview with Ralph Langner on Monday.u00a0u00a0 Correction: An earlier version of this story stated, incorrectly, that Ralph Langner presented an early analysis of the Stuxnet worm at the S4 Conference in Miami. Langner actually made that presentation at the WeissCon Conference in Washington D.C. The story has been updated to reflect this. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365acc6cefc42b00293eb9" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "The Mystery of Duqu", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/mystery-duqu-102011/75778/", "Date" : "October 20, 2011 , 2:23 pm", "Article" : " First of all, we feel it necessary to clarify some of the confusion surrounding the files and their names related to this incident. To get a full understanding of the situation you only need to know that weu2019re talking about just two malicious programs here (at a minimum) u2013 the main module and a keylogger. All that has been mentioned in last 24 hours about connections between Duqu and Stuxnet is related mostly to the first one u2013 the main module. The main module consists of three components: The module is very similar to Stuxnet u2013 both in structure and in behavior. However, the name Duqu has almost no connection with it. This name is based on the names of the files that are related to a completely different malicious spy-program! This second malicious program, which is basically a keylogger (but is also able to collect other types of information) was discovered on the system of one of the victims together with the main module described above. Because of this fact, plus the main moduleu2019s ability to download other components, it was assumed that the main module and the keylogger were somehow related to each other. While working in a system, the keylogger stores collected data in files with names like ~DQx.tmp. So the name of the main module u2013 Duqu u2013 was given based on these files. But actually, the code of the Trojan-Spy in part proves the connection between it and the main module, and it was probably downloaded by the main module sometime earlier. But as per its functionality, it is an independent malicious application able to work without the main module. At the same time, the main module is able to work without the Trojan-Spy. However, the connection between the keylogger and Stuxnet is not so obvious, and thatu2019s why itu2019s possible u2013 at a stretch u2013 to perhaps call it a grandchild of Stuxnet, but certainly not its child ud83dude42  A year ago during our analysis of Stuxnet we concluded that it consists of two parts: a carrier platform, and a separate module responsible for PLC. In fact, Stuxnet is rather like a real-life missile with an overclocking module (a worm itself) and a warhead (PLC module).  We suggested that Stuxnet was developed probably by two different groups of people who may not have known about each otheru2019s existence or the ultimate aim of the project.  The part of Stuxnet responsible for its spread and system infection might be used again, but with a different u2018warheadu2019. And thatu2019s similar to what happened with Duqu. However, Duqu had no u2018warheadu2019, but it was able to install any u2018warheadu2019 at any moment and aim it at any target. What is needed is clarification of the sequence of events that are known and which can be disclosed. The first u201cdateu201d between Duqu and antivirus vendors took place on September 1, 2011, when somebody from Hungary sent a file named ~DN1.tmp to Virustotal for scanning. The name of the file indicates that it was probably found on an infected machine. The file was not a component of the main module, but a Trojan-Spy, and was probably installed on a system already infected by Duqu. The file was detected at the moment of submission by four products u2013 actually, just two antivirus engines: BitDefender (as Gen:Trojan.Heur.FU.fuW@aGOd0Wpi), and AVIRA (as TR/Crypt.XPACK.Gen3); F-Secure and G-DATA use BitDefenderu2019s engine. This is very interesting. It indicates that the authors of Duqu were not all that worried about detection of this module by specifically these four antivirus programs. However, these detections helped uncover the module. After the initial detection, the file was added by many antivirus companies to their databases u2013 from September 9 to 19 mostly. Kaspersky Lab added this file to its database as Trojan.Win32.Inject.bjyg on September 14. On the same day Microsoft added it too (Trojan:Win32/Hideproc.G). It could have been possible to think that signature detection of this file by a number of antivirus programs meant that the Duqu main module should also be detected. However, the situation was totally different. The first u201crealu201d Duqu file was also sent for scanning to Virustotal, also probably from Hungary. This took place on September 9. The file was sent with its original name cmi4432.sys, and it indicates the variant of the driver, which has a C-Media digital signature.  None of the 43 Virustotal antivirus programs detected it u2013 neither on September 9 (the first submission of the main module to Virustotal), nor on October 17 (when information about Duqu was published). All detections were added after publication. This indisputable fact proves that Duquu2019s authors were very careful while creating it. Despite the similarity with Stuxnet, they were able to change the code and bypass detection by all popular antivirus programs. Itu2019s interesting to see the correlation between the exact time of file submission in Hungary to Virustotal, and the public information about the files which was available earlier. What weu2019re talking about here are posts by a Hungarian blogger (see  www.securelist.com/en/blog/208193178/Duqu_FAQ), especially those on September 8 where he points out the MD5 of the file: the main module and the Trojan-Spy! We investigated this situation and concluded that the Hungarian blogger probably works for Data Contact (www.dc.hu), an ISP/ Hoster and Certification Authority in Budapest. Probably this company or its clients found these files on their PCs. Frankly speaking, we, as well as some other antivirus vendors, know at least one other company in Hungary that became a victim of Duqu. But at the moment this information cannot be disclosed. The second variant of the driver was also submitted to Virustotal and was also probably from Hungary. This happened on September 18 and the fileu2019s original name is jminet7.sys. This variant has no digital signature and passes itself as a file from JMicron.  And again, as was the case with the first driver, we didnu2019t see any detections on Virustotal until October 18. No PNF files which are encrypted DLLs and configuration files for drivers have been spotted on Virustotal, and no antivirus vendors got hold of these files until the first official publication about Duqu. However, since collecting all the information about Duqu and publishing it, new files of this malware have been found. This means that Duquu2019s authors are monitoring the situation, are reacting to events, and are not going to stop. A new driver was found on October 18 u2013 with a new date of creation and new file information. On October 19 this file was submitted to Virustotal by two different sources u2013 in Austria and in Indonesia u2013 almost at the same time (an 18-minute interval)! The new variant passes itself as an IBM driver:  It has no digital signature and was compiled on October 17. We received a new driver via Virustotal on the night of October 20, which is different from the previous ones. It was sent from the UK. It also has no digital signature and also was compiled on October 17 (the same date as the IBM driver).  Have a look at the file name: adpu321.sys. This becomes significant and interesting in the next part of this taleu2026 Recall the Stuxnet story. We and other antivirus companies spotted tens of thousands of infections (especially in Iran) right after its discovery and detection. This gave a rather unambiguos indication of the probable target, and further investigation confirmed this theory. But what about Duquu2019s infection map? We used our cloud-based Kaspersky Security Network, which allows us to track any malicious activities on clientsu2019 systems. The results are surprising. We found just ONE real infection in the 24 hours after adding the detection of all the modules! And the country where the infected user is based is highly specific, and completely different to all the countries mentioned in this report above (Hungary, Austria, Indonesia, the UK). Weu2019re currently trying to contact the user to be able to conduct a deeper investigation and search for the missing Duqu components that are probably in the infected system. For now we can only point out that the malicious driver that was found there has a completely different name u2013 adp95xx.sys (similar to adpu321.sys). This means that THREE different Duqu drivers have been found in the last 48 hours. And it is possible that there are more of them. It is essential to mention that we can observe only one Duqu main module infection; we donu2019t see any Trojan-Spy infections. This means that: De facto, this means that Duqu may exist in different variants, e.g., not necessarily with a keylogger, which is claimed to be the only known malicious module. In our view other modules u2013 able to do come what may u2013 could exist. Unlike Stuxnet, which infected many systems but looked for a specific target, Duqu infects a very small number of very specific systems around the world, but may use completely different modules for every system. Moreover, at the moment no one has found the installation file (dropper), which has to be the first link in the infection chain u2013 responsible for both the driver and DLL installation. This file might be a worm and use various exploits. This file is the key to solving the Duqu puzzle. Our search for it continuesu2026 UPDATE  Right after publication we found an interesting link (http://systemexplorer.net/db/adpu321.sys.html) that contains information about one more Duqu driver. It has the same file name as the fourth file that we describe (adpu321.sys). But, as you may notice, it was discovered on 21 September and the file described by us was created on 17 October! This merely emphasizes our belief that there may well be many Duqu drivers out there that continue to go unnoticed (but which can be detected). " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ad66cefc42b00293ec9" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Duqu-pocalypse Reveals Gulf Between Security, Critical Infrastructure Sectors", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/duqu-pocalypse-reveals-gulf-between-security-critical-infrastructure-sectors-101911/75774/", "Date" : "October 19, 2011 , 4:56 pm", "Article" : "To hear many of the leading computer security experts,u00a0Tuesday, October 18 was u201cD-Day,u201d with the u201cDu201d standing for u201cDuqu,u201d a new piece of malware that virus experts were tripping over each other to call u201cStuxnet 2.0.u201d u201cStuxnet Clone u2018Duquu2019 Possibly Preparing Power Plant Attacksu201d read a headline on the Website of Foxnews, summing up the air of hysteria surrounding the new malware. But less than a day later, questions are being raised about the purpose and threat posed by the new malware. Experts from the industrial control sector voiced skepticism about the hype surrounding the Trojanu2019s discovery, which came to light after anti malware firm Symantec released a 13 page analysis of Duqu calling it a u201cprecursor to the next Stuxnet.u201d Many industrial control systems (ICS) experts noted that the malware didnu2019t contain any code to infect industrial systems and said that, while it may have infected PCs in a similar manner as Stuxnet, likening the two malicious programs created an undeserved sense of urgency for those in the critical infrastructure sector. In an alert sent out Tuesday, the Department of Homeland Securityu2019s ICS-CERT emphasized that, although the malware may be collecting information for a future attack on industrial control facilities, Duqu u2013 an example of what is known as a remote access Trojan, or RAT, doesnu2019t attack ICS systems. The ICS-CERT alert advised readers to adhere to standard best practices to limit exposure of control system devices to malware infections. That subdued tone was present in comments from other experts in the space. At Digital Bond, a products and consulting firm that specializes in SCADA and ICS systems, Founder and CEO Dale Peterson wrote that he was u201cwary about the relevanceu201d of Symantec claims that Duqu was laying the groundwork for future attacks on ICS systems. u201cIf Duqu generically targeted GE, Siemens and Hitachi, it would be a leap to say they wanted ICS information,u201d Peterson wrote. u201cAlso given the vulnerabilities in so many of the systems an attacker would be much better off targeting ICS users to gain their credentials that would allow access from the corporate network to the ICS.u201d In other words: eventual attacks leveraging data about ICS systems stolen by Duqu are a remote concern for critical infrastructure firms, especially given the immediate danger of known and exploitable software vulnerabilities in ICS systems, let alone the improperly configured or specu2019d systems that are in production. In one indication of how big the problem of ICS systems that are u201cvulnerable by designu201d is, the DHS recently said that it would start calling such vulnerabilities u201cdesign issuesu201d instead. SCADA security expert Ralph Langner was also nonplussed by the news of Duquu2019s discovery. In a terse blog post, Langner said that Stuxnet follow-up attacks and copycat attacks were to be expected, but that the malware appeared unrelated to control systems. u201cFrom a practical point of view it hardly seems to matter which category it actually falls in,u201d Langner wrote.u00a0 The mixed reaction speaks more to the wide gulf that exists between the industrial control sector and a computer security and anti virus industry that grew up addressing threats to Windows based PCs and traditional, IP based corporate networks. In his blog post, Peterson of Digital Bond suggests that one reason for the dissonance is that the anti malware industry tends to look at malicious programs on the basis of how they work, whereas the ICS community is far more interested on what they do u2013 and whether they are serious and credible threats. u201cTo an anti-malware organization like Symantec, Duqu appears like Stuxnet because the way it infects the PC is similar,u201d Peterson wrote. u201cTo most in the ICS community it appears nothing like Stuxnet because it is not attacking a PLC or process in any way.u201d In other words, the most salient characteristic of Stuxnet wasnu2019t its infection mechanism(s) or its use of a digital certificate to sign malware components u2013 it was what it did to Siemens ICS systems. And, in that vein, ICS experts are much less concerned about a new threat that uses Stuxnet code, then about a new threat that copies Stuxnetu2019s methodology of compromising programmable logic controllers. Stripped of any features that can actually harm or modify ICS systems,Duqu is just u201canother remote access trojan that is a concern, like many other attack vectors, for an adversary trying to find a way into a SCADA or DCS control center through the corporate network,u201d Peterson writes. Finally, different analyses of the Duqu malware have clouded discussion of its purpose. Symantecu2019s thorough analysis of the Trojan left out details about which organizations it was found on, but described them as in the manufacturing and critical infrastructure. In a separate analysis, however, researchers at McAfee suggested that Duqu could have been targeted at certificate authorities. In short, while its clear that Duqu was designed to steal information, what type of digital information and from whom are still very much open questions, experts say. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ada6cefc42b00293ed0" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "France Accuses US of Using Flame Malware to Hack Presidentu2019s Network", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/france-accuses-us-using-flame-malware-hack-presidents-network-112112/77237/", "Date" : "November 21, 2012 , 2:15 pm", "Article" : "The French government has accused the United States of using Flame malware to break into the computer networks inside Franceu2019s presidential palace, the Elysee. Newsmagazine lu2019Express reported the intrusion occurred days before the presidential elections in May when Nicolas Sarkozy was ousted by Francois Hollande. The magazine said the attackers were able to search computers belonging to Sarkozyu2019s closest advisor, Xavier Musca, and steal political and strategic secrets. The United States Embassy in Paris has denied any involvement in hacking its ally. u201cWe categorically refute allegations of unidentified sources,u201d Mitchell Moss, Embassy spokesman, told lu2019Express. u201cFrance is one of our best allies. Our cooperation is remarkable in the areas of intelligence, law enforcement and cyber defense. It has never been so good and remains essential to achieve our common fight against extremist threat.u201d Lu2019Express quoted an anonymous source reportedly close to the investigation said that hack likely stemmed from Franceu2019s numerous political and economic agreements with countries in the Middle East, and how those would be impacted during a potential political transition in the country, the magazine reported. u201cYou can be on very good terms with a u2018friendlyu2019 country and still want to guarantee their unwavering supportu2014especially during a transition period,u201d the source said. The attackers reportedly found their targets on Facebook, identifying people working inside the presidential palace and connecting with them on the social network. The social engineering laid the groundwork for the next phase of the attack; the victims were then sent links to a fake Elysee intranet page where their login credentials were stolen. Once the attackers had legitimate credentials, lu2019Express reported, they installed the Flame malware and were able to pivot inside the network until landing on Muscau2019s machine. Sarkozy, reportedly, did not have a PC. Department of Homeland Security secretary Janet Napolitano did not deny the U.S. was involved. She told lu2019Express: u201cWe have no greater partner than France, we have no greater ally than France. We cooperate in many security-related areas. I am here to further reinforce those ties and create new ones.u201d Flame, along with Stuxnet, has been linked to a joint U.S.-Israel operation targeting certain machines in Middle East countries such as Iran, Sudan, Syria and Lebanon. The malware is used for espionage and contains many capabilities, including the ability to log keystrokes, monitor network traffic, take screenshots of victimsu2019 computers, record audio or video and send stolen data to Flame command and control servers. Flame also was discovered to be using a collision attack to forge a Microsoft digital certificate used to sign the malware as legitimate. In October, Kaspersky Lab identified MiniFlame as a secondary surveillance tool deployed only after an initial Flame compromise. MiniFlame conducts in-depth surveillance on particular targets once an initial round of stolen data is analyzed and prime targets are identified, said Alexander Gostev, chief security expert at Kaspersky. At the time it was reported, there were only 20 MiniFlame infections detected; in comparison, Flame, which pre-dates Stuxnet, had infected 700 machines. Most of the MiniFlame infections were found in Lebanon, Kaspersky researchers said, while Flame targeted computers in Iran, Israel, Sudan and Syria. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ae06cefc42b00293edb" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CERT Warns Of Cyber Threats To Gas Pipelines", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cert-warns-cyber-threats-gas-pipelines-050812/76541/", "Date" : "May 8, 2012 , 8:58 pm", "Article" : "The Department of Homeland Security said it is investigating a string of cyber intrusions targeting companies that operate national gas pipelines in the U.S. The DHSu2019s Industrial Control System Computer Emergency Readiness Team (ICS-CERT) disclosed in its April, 2012 newsletter that it is investigating attacks and attempted intrusions into what it describes as u201cmultiple natural gas pipeline sector organizations.u201d The attacks suggest a common source and a single campaign dating to as early as December, 2011. The attacks described in the newsletter are consistent with u201cadvanced persistent threatu201d or APT-style attacks, which rely on sophisticated social engineering methods and phishing e-mails to gain access to key personnel within a target organization. In the case of the natural gas pipeline attacks, u201cthe number of persons targeted appears to be tightly focusedu201d and u201cthe e-mails have been convincingly crafted to appear as though they were sent from a trusted member internal to the organization,u201d ICS-CERT warned. ICS-CERT said it has issued an alert to organizations in the gas pipeline sector and to government agencies. It is also helping coordinate on-site analysis to determine the extent of infection and to assist with removal of any malware, and then harden networks to further attacks. Attacks that target critical infrastructure providers have been in the spotlight since the appearance of the Stuxnet worm more than two years ago. In the last year, there have been repeated reports about attacks that target companies in the energy sector, including oil, natural gas and electricity generation and distribution. In a survey conducted by the Ponemon Institute in 2011, three of four energy firms reported data breaches of some sort in the prior 12 months. Cybersecurity legislation has been high on the agenda for policy-makers in Washington, D.C. this year. But much of that legislation has fallen victim to partisan wrangling over the degree to which cyber security should be mandated, or merely encouraged, and by provisions of some bills that privacy advocates worry will encroach onu00a0civil liberties.u00a0 u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ae76cefc42b00293ee7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Analysis: Duqu Targets Certificate Authorities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/analysis-duqu-targets-certificate-authorities-101811/75770/", "Date" : "October 18, 2011 , 9:11 pm", "Article" : "With virus researchers scrambling to decode a new piece of malware that is based on the code of the Stuxnet worm, an analyst at McAfee is speculating that the new worm, Duqu, may have been created to target certificate authorities. Writing on McAfeeu2019s research blog,u00a0Guilherme Venere and Peter Szor say that an analysis of the Duqu code by McAfee experts suggests that the worm was created u201cfor espionage and targeted attacks against sites such as Certificate Authorities (CAs).u201d The McAfee analysis, if accurate, is the first to explicitly mention the type of organization that the Duqu worm targeted, and would suggest that those behind the worm intended to use it as a precursor to subsequent, targeted attacks.u00a0 Certificate authorities have been prominent targets of hackers in recent months. In just the most recent example, the Dutch CA Diginotar was compromised and used to generate fraudulent certificates for Google, Mozilla, The Tor Foundation and other prominent Web sites. The Dutch government eventually broke ties with Diginotar, which was forced to declare bankruptcy in the wake of the incident. In March, the CA Comodo also reported that it was the victim of a compromise.u00a0 McAfee said that the Duqu worm has been identified in u201cprofessional, targeted attacksu201d against CAs in parts of Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Africa. The researchers speculate that a digital certificate belonging to the firm C-Media, based in Taipei, was not stolen, but forged by a compromised CA.u00a0 The McAfee analysis fills in some details omitted from a longer analysis released by Symantec Corp on Tuesday. That research declined to name the kind of firm targeted by the worm, but provided a detailed analysis of the Duqu code, which bears a close resemblance to Stuxnet, with shared code used for the injection attack and several encryption keys and techniques that wereu00a0used inu00a0Stuxnet.u00a0 Like Symantecu2019s report, the analysis from McAfee says that it knows of only a few infections linked to Duqu, and says the worm doesnu2019t appear to be designed to attack industrial control systems, as Stuxnet was.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365aea6cefc42b00293eee" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Virus Experts Warn of Stuxnet Variant u201cDuquu201d", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/virus-experts-warn-stuxnet-variant-duqu-101811/75769/", "Date" : "October 18, 2011 , 7:12 pm", "Article" : "Virus researchers at Symantec Corp. have discovered a variant of the Stuxnet worm, dubbed Duqu, that is designed to steal information about industrial control systems. Symantec said the malware, which has turned up on more than one customersu2019 network, could be used to gather data for a future attack. A report from Symantecu2019s Security Response organization said the worm, W32.Duqu, was first identified on October 14 and has already turned up on the networks of more than one firm in Europe. The companyu2019s claim that Duqu was u201cStuxnet 2.0u201d garnered immediate attention online. However, Duqu is hardly revolutionary in the way that Stuxnet was. Indeed, Symantec said that Duqu was most likely written by the same authors and u201cshares a great deal of code with Stuxnet.u201d Like Stuxnet, Duqu has a modular structure and uses similar infection mechanisms. Duqu also uses a valid certificate to sign one of its key drivers. The certificate belongs to C-Media Electronics, Inc., a Taiwanese audio chip maker. While Duqu appears to have been derived from the Stuxnet worm, however, its purpose is different, Symantec said. Rather than destroying industrial control systems, Duqu appears to be an information stealing Trojan that collects keystrokes and other information that might be used in subsequent attacks, Symantec said. F-Secure, the Finnish anti malware firm, said that its software already had a detection for the wormu2019s Trojan dropper (a key component that delivers the malicious payload u2013 such as a keylogger u2013 to the infected system. The malware was identified as u201cGen:Trojan.Heur.FU.fuW@aGQd0Wpi,u201d according to a Twitter post sent out Tuesday by Mikko Hypponen, CSO of F-Secure. Although the provenance of the Duqu worm isnu2019t known, Symantec said an analysis of the worm code dates the info stealing component to at least June of 2011, putting its first appearance well after the appearance of Stuxnet in late 2009 and early 2010. The worm takes its name from a file prefix u2013 DQ u2013 that is used to name a key worm component. When run, Duqu injects itself into one of four, common Windows processes: Explorer.exe, IEExplore.exe, Firefox.exe or Pccntmon.exe. Once installed, the worm downloads and installs an information stealing component which harvests information from the infected system and stores it in an encrypted files on the infected system for export to the attackers system. Among the information harvested by Duqu are lists of running processes, account and domain information, lists of configured drives and shared, network drives, screenshots, local file and network information as well as user keystrokes and screenshots from active sessions. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365aed6cefc42b00293ef3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "UPDATE u2013 Stuxnet Expert: Analysis Shows Design Flaw, Not Vulnerability Sunk Siemens", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stuxnet-expert-langner-analysis-shows-design-flaw-not-vulnerability-sunk-siemens-011912/76115/", "Date" : "January 19, 2012 , 2:41 pm", "Article" : "MIAMIu2013The worldu2019s foremost expert on the Stuxnet worm said an analysis of source code for a critical component of the malware prove that Iranu2019s nuclear program was the target, and that attackers were able to exploit weak design in Siemens software, rather than having to exploit a software vulnerability to carry out their attack. Ralph Langner, an independent security researcher, presented his analysis of specialized code used by the Stuxnet worm to an exploit Siemens Simatic S7-417 programmable logic controllers (PLCs) to an audience of his peers: industrial control security experts at the annual S4 Conference. In it, Langner stepped through decompiled code used by Stuxnet and open source intelligence, isolating key lines of code used in the attack and arguing that Stuxnet was designed by industrial control experts with a specific target in mind: the Iranian uranium enrichment facility in Natanz. u201cI can say we now know Stuxnetu2019s target with a confidence of 100 percent,u201d Langner told the gathering of around 60 experts in SCADA and industrial control systems.  Langner was the first industrial control system expert to finger Iran as the likely target of the Stuxnet worm, which at first confounded virus researchers and security experts used to analyzing malicious code designed for compromising traditional IT infrastructures. u00a0He has long claimed that the Stuxnet code used to compromise S7-417 PLCs proves Iran was the wormu2019s target, though this was the first time Langner shared the details of his analysis with the public. With a news crew from the weekly news program 60 Minutes on hand to film his presentation, Langner walked attendees through the process he and others used to reverse engineer and decompile the wormu2019s code to yield the raw source code u2013 the computer instructions that governed Stuxnetu2019s actions. His analysis focused on a handful of code blocks that governed key aspects of the worm, and challenged earlier theories that the Stuxnet code designed for S7-417 programmable logic controllers was u201cincompleteu201d or not active. Langner believes that the code, while incapable of running on its own, was designed to leverage components of the specific applications used at Natanz u2013 possibly a list of input/output addresses for that application u2013 and would have worked perfectly in the Natanz environment. Langner painstakingly connected the dots between components of the Stuxnet code with clues about the Iranian uranium enrichment culled from a variety of open source intelligence, including public statements by Iranian officials and photos from a visit to Natanz by Iranian President Ahmadinejad that inadvertently provided details on the configuration of centrifuges within Natanz. Contrary to much of the public reporting on Stuxnet, however, Langner said that the worm was not designed to destroy the Natanz facility, but rather to secretly and stealthily control the process and steer it into a virtual ditch. To do that, the attackers ran repeated attacks over a period of months and only under extremely specific conditions that made the malwareu2019s activity impossible to notice. The code Langner analyzed revealed an incredibly deep understanding of the functioning of the Simatic software and the centrifuges that the Iranians relied on. u201cThese guys know the centrifuges better than the Iranians,u201d Langner said of the Stuxnet authors. u201cThe know everything. They know the timing, they known the inputs, and they know it by heart.u201d When it came to actually carrying out Stuxnetu2019s most insidious attack u2013 changing the output of the S7 PLCs from the management software, the wormu2019s authors didnu2019t need to leverage a sophisticated hack. Instead, they simply took advantage of a poor design decision by Siemens, the vendor that makes the Simatic software. u201cThe vendor in question made a decision to make the (PLC) input process image read-write instead of read only,u201d Langner said. That decision may have seemed inconsequential to the vendor and its customers, but it allowed the Stuxnet authors to merely record process input, then simply u201cplay backu201d that data to the PLC controller interface during an attack to make it seem as if the device was behaving normally. Langner used his analysis to criticize both Siemens and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, both of which he accused of failing to take the security issues seriously. u201cThis is one of the biggest problems in ICS security,u201d Langner said. u201cAnd these guys are not taking it seriously.u201d Sophisticated attackers have no need to develop sophisticated, zero day exploits for SCADA and ICS systems, Langner said, because those systems already have so many inherent design flaws. u201cIf I were your attacker, I wouldnu2019t bother to discover a buffer overflow,u201d he said. u201cIu2019d just go to the design flaws, because they can be exploited much more reliably,u201d he said. u201cThis is how the pros do it.u201d Responding to Langneru2019s presentation, a Siemens spokesman said that the company is aware that its legacy Simatic product lines contain vulnerabilities and is working to fix those issues.u00a0 u201cAdditionally, Siemens is focused on developing new products with more robust safety and security features to adapt to the realities of the cyber world,u201d said Alexander Machowetz, head of media relations at Siemens Industrial in an e-mail statement. u201cIndustrial Security is a two-way street.u00a0What we need now is to closely cooperate with plant operators and systems integrators to ensure the latest password protection and information security systems are in place. Let me reassure you that we take all researchers and their findings very seriously,u201du00a0Machowetz wrote.u00a0 Sean McBride of the SCADA and ICS security firm Critical Intelligence said that Langneru2019s presentation was impressive. u201cThe amount of work he did to reverse engineer that code and analyze it is incredible,u201d he said. McBride said that Langner raised important points in talking about the role that poor and insecure design played in the Stuxnet attack and other such attacks. But he also wondered whether Langner might face the wrath of the U.S. government or the intelligence sector for providing such in depth analysis of the Stuxnet code to the public. u201cI think he was incredibly brave to get up there and give that presentation,u201d said McBride. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365aed6cefc42b00293ef4" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Report: Obama Administration Considered Libyan Cyber-Offensive", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/report-obama-administration-considered-libyan-cyber-offensive-101811/75764/", "Date" : "October 18, 2011 , 6:04 pm", "Article" : "The Obama Administration reportedly debated kicking off its latest war-effort in Libya with a cyber-offensive targeting the Qaddafi regimeu2019s air-defense infrastructure, according to a report from the New York Times. The details of the Obama Administrationu2019s plan remain classified, but the Times reports that it would u00a0involve penetrating the former Libyan governmentu2019s network firewalls, disrupting military communications and dissolving their ability to gather intelligence on the locations of NATO warplanes.u00a0 The plan was eventually aborted amid concerns that launching such an offensive could establish a dangerous precedent for other nations, namely China and Russia, to carry out similar operations of their own interest. Facts on the ground in Libya also played a part in killing plans for a cyber offensive. At the time,u00a0Benghazi was on the verge of being overrun by Qaddafi and there was no promise that these capabilities could be ready for use in a timely fashion,u00a0according to a number of anonymous senior officials cited in the report. Finally, officials said it was unclear whether authorizing a cyber-offensive would fall under the jurisdiction of the President or Congress.u00a0Congress is the only body mandated by the Constitution to declare war. But its authority to approve wars has weakened in recent decades, as the Executive Branch has found ways to characterize military actions as something short of full fledged war.u00a0 u201cWe donu2019t want to be the ones who break the glass on this new kind of warfare,u201d John Andrew Lewis, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies told the New York Times. Of course, quite to the contrary of Lewisu2019s point is the Stuxnet Worm, allegedly deployed more than a year ago to derail Iranian uranium enrichment efforts. While there has been no official confirmation of who designed the enormously complicated computer virus, it has been widely speculated that Stuxnet was the fruit of a joint U.S.-Israeli operation. You can read the entire New York Times report here. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365af96cefc42b00293f08" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Iran: We Have Discovered u2018Hidden Agendau2019 Of Oil Ministry Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/iran-we-have-discovered-hidden-agenda-oil-ministry-attack-050112/76508/", "Date" : "May 1, 2012 , 8:55 pm", "Article" : "The Iranian government has discovered what it describes as a u2018hidden agendau2019 behind a recent malware attack on the countryu2019s Oil Ministry, according to a report published by the FARS News Agency. The statement, from Deputy Oil Minister Hamdollah Mohammadnejad, confirmed earlier reports that the attack was the work of a virus, but added that it was aimed at u201cstealing and destorying data and information. He said that the government now understood the u201cnature of the attack and the identity of the attackers.u201d Mohammadnejad declined to give more details, however, citing an ongoing investigation, Fars reported on Saturday. The attack, which was first reported on April 23, led to the temporary shutdown of some Iranian oil facilities, including the Kharg Island oil terminal u2013 a massive complex that processes 90% of Iranu2019s oil exports. He also hinted at a targeted attack, rather than a chance infection or an effort to cause mayhem. u201cThose who design and develop such viruses are pursuing specific goals,u201d Mohammadnejad told Fars. Senior Iranian oil ministry officials announced earlier this week said their computer systems resumed normal operation on Wednesday. Initially, the Oil Ministry claimed that the attack had not harmed any u201cessential datau201d because sensitive and public systems used by the Ministry were separated. Iran and its nuclear program have been at the center of talks about the potential danger of cyber warfare and nation-state sponsored cyber attacks. The countryu2019s uranium enrichment facilities are believed to be the original target of the Stuxnet worm, which was first identified in 2010 and is believed to have been the work of the U.S. and, possibly, Israel.u00a0 More recently, the conversation has shifted to the potential vulnerability of U.S. critical infrastructure to cyber attacks launched by enemy states or cyber criminal groups. In Washington, a congressional joint Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Security Technologies held a hearing on the Iranian Cyber Threat to the U.S. Homeland last week, with representatives of both major parties warned that Iran could pursue cyber attacks against the U.S. should tensions flare over its nuclear program.u00a0 u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365afd6cefc42b00293f10" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Cyberwar Name Game a Dangerous Play", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cyberwar-name-game-dangerous-play-020613/77495/", "Date" : "February 6, 2013 , 12:00 pm", "Article" : "SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico u2013 The term u201ccyberwaru201d is the u201czero dayu201d of security jargon; itu2019s getting so that every bug is a zero day and every attack is hash-tagged cyberwar. This serves only to distract smart people from making smart decisions. Too much brainpower and bandwidth is being wasted on labels, while networks run at the whim of hackers, regardless of whether they live in Atlanta or Asiau2014and itu2019s forcing the cyberwar discourse down some nerve-racking paths. Some argue that without blood and physical destruction, you donu2019t have war. Malware used to steal data or to cause manufacturing equipment to malfunction are not kinetic weapons, therefore you donu2019t have war. Without accurate attribution of who is behind an attack, you donu2019t have an adversary. Without an adversary, you donu2019t have war. You may have victims, but these are victims of cybercrime or cyberespionage, and not victims of acts of war. u201cCyberwar is not the appropriate term for what weu2019re seeing,u201d said Lee Vorthman, CISO at NetApp US Public Sector, and a speaker on a panel discussion during the Kaspersky Security Analyst Summit. While Stuxnet, Duqu, Gauss, Flame and Red October have been inconclusively linked to nation states, they are definitely a 21-century extension of the old spy game: Get intel on the other guy before he gets intel on you. The dangerous part is that some of this malware, experts say, was meant to be contained to particular target networks. As we know, Stuxnet, in particular, escaped beyond its intended boundaries infecting tens of thousands of computers worldwide. While Flame et al hit fewer targets, itu2019s fairly safe to the victim demographics werenu2019t limited to ambassadors, nuclear researchers and military decision makers. And there you have the rub: collateral damage. u201cWeu2019ve been seeing collateral damage for a while,u201d said Steve Adegbite, director of cyber security strategies at Lockheed Martin. u201cYou could use malware to take out a radar station, but could it boomerang back to me and harm me? Once you launch that type of weapon, itu2019s out there. You canu2019t always protect yourself. It can be enhanced and sent back to you.u201d Noboru Nakatani, executive director of INTERPOLu2019s new Digital Crime Center, said it is a challenge to discern collateral or intended damage unless a claim of responsibility is made. u201cTracking an IP address and getting to the computers used in attacks doesnu2019t lead to meaning,u201d Nakatani said. Eugene Kaspersky, chief executive of Kaspersky Lab, equates data loss with physical damage, arguing that data is as physical as radioactive fallout from a nuclear attack. Neither can be seen, but effects are felt. u201cDonu2019t just think about [an attackeru2019s] intention, think about worst-case scenarios,u201d Kaspersky said during the panel discussion. u201cAnd not just with Stuxnet and attacks on SCADA systems, but things like Slammer that caused an Internet blackout in South Korea in 2003. It wasnu2019t designed to do that; it was a small piece of malware. But it generated enough traffic that South Korea was disconnected for a weekend.u201d Kaspersky added additional examples of collateral damage, including an attack carried out by Russian hackers targeting the government websites of the Estonian government, only to disconnect the entire country from the Net. u201cAttribution is extremely tricky,u201d Kaspersky said. u201cItu2019s easy to point the finger at the wrong source. Cyberweapons are extremely dangerous and governments must agree not to use them.u201d Lockheed Martinu2019s Adegbite said international organizations, including the United Nations, are beginning to construct frameworks, both on policy and legal fronts, to address the issue on an international scale. While discourse is fine, it serves to underscore that rules of engagement donu2019t exist for offensive capabilities in cyberspace. u201cIt takes time to get to the point where we say weu2019re not going to point these things at each other,u201d Adegbite said. u201cEven the UN isnu2019t set up for this. These problems didnu2019t exist when these organizations were created. You have to fast-forward your thinking and structure to deal with stuff that could be 10 years down the line.u201d Until there is a wide-ranging solution of some kind, weu2019ll doubtless see more APTs in the coming months, more versions of Flame, and maybe even the next Red October. Data will be lost, companies may endure downtime, productivity will suffer and money will be spent to fix the problem. But without physical destruction and/or loss of life, the cyberwar name game is a dangerous and irresponsible play. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365aff6cefc42b00293f13" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Eugene Kaspersky: Clear Need to Define Cyberweapons and Cyberwar", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/eugene-kaspersky-clear-need-define-cyberweapons-and-cyberwar-111312/77212/", "Date" : "November 13, 2012 , 8:22 pm", "Article" : "The term cyberwar has become a catch-all used by politicians, talking heads and others to encompass just about any online threat, regardless of the attacker or the target. Among security professionals, however, the word has a specific connotationu2013an attack by one nation against another nationu2019s infrastructure. Aside from the semantic issues, one of the major challenges for government agencies and security teams dealing with his problem is attribution and recognizing what constitutes an actual act of cyberwar. Stuxnet, Flame and their cousins may qualify, but more discussion is needed to help define the terms of these new conflicts, experts say. One of the key problems is that virtually any attack tool could be defined as a cyberweapon, depending upon the context, the target and the attacker. Certainly tools such as Duqu fall into that category, but so might simple remote-access Trojans under certain circumstances. Who makes that call? Right now, itu2019s mainly made by either the victim or a security researcher on the outside.u00a0 u201cThereu2019s no definition of cyberweapons. Whatu2019s the difference between cyberweapons and traditional ones?u201d said Eugene Kaspersky, CEO of Kaspersky Lab, in a discussion on Tuesday. u201cOne difference is software is software. People can make a copy, disassemble it, learn its tricks.u201d This is one of the points that security researchers have made about the use of tools such as Stuxnet and Flame: Once the tool is discovered, experts on the victimu2019s end have the chance to tear it apart and see what tactics and methods the attackers used. In the same way that enemy armed forces can take apart a downed fighter or helicopter and learn from what the other side is doing, engineers can pore over lines of code in attack tools and look for ways to improve their own creations. Another problem that crops up in discussions around the use of cyberweapons is the issue of attribution. Discovering who is behind a given attack is a notoriously difficult problem, even when there are seemingly obvious clues in the code such as idiomatic phrases in a specific language or a traceable path that leads to servers in a hostile country. Those things can be faked easily and there donu2019t seem to be many countries standing up to take credit for any of the known attacks. That leads to speculation and guesswork. u201cItu2019s very difficult to find out who is behind an attack. Itu2019s easy to point a finger at the wrong source,u201d Kaspersky said. u201cThereu2019s no such thing as true attribution for cyberweapons. Itu2019s very easy to cheat.u201d As the Stuxnet attack in particular showed, itu2019s also quite easy for cyberweapons intended for one specific target to get a little feisty and end up on neighboring systems or networks. Stuxnet was designed to attack the systems controlling the centrifuges at the Natanz nuclear facility in Iran, systems that ran on software from Siemens that is not widely understood. However, the worm ended up making a leap to some desktop machines and eventually made its way out of the facility entirely. The mistakes by the Stuxnet attackers led to the wormu2019s eventual discovery. Even years later, the effects are still being felt. Officials at Chevron said this week that their corporate network had been infected by Stuxnet, but that no damage was done. Despite those unintended consequences, like Stuxnet, most cyberweapons are written with a specific target or set of targets in mind, often a small number of systems in a particular organization or industry that contain valuable data. But when they make their way out of those targeted environments, there can be wide-ranging consequences. This, Kaspersky said, is one of the things that concerns him most about the way these tools are being used. u201cThe damage for cyberweapons wonu2019t just happen to the target,u201d he said. u201cThere will be random victims if the software isnu2019t able to recognize its targets. There could be many victims, especially when you realize the Internet doesnu2019t have borders.u201d Government officials have begun making noises about the need for international discussions regarding the use of cyberweapons, either during a conventional war or as standalone attacks. But without a clear definition of what constitutes a cyberweapon or a good way to identify the people or nation behind an attack, any discussions could end up being fruitless.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b026cefc42b00293f18" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Five Shocking Statistics From The Latest Internet Threat Report", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/five-shocking-statistics-latest-internet-threat-report-043012/76502/", "Date" : "April 30, 2012 , 7:09 pm", "Article" : "Anti malware company Symantec released its threat report for 2011 on Monday. Buried in the dry statistics about the number of Web based attacks and malicious programs detected during the year are some surprising facts. Among them: religious-themed Web sites are among the dirtiest on the Internet. Religious and ideological sites had triple the average number of threats per infected sites that pornographic Web sites, Symantec reported in its 2011 Internet Security Threat Report (ISTR). The report found a mix of trends that u2013 with spam levels dropping, even as attacks mounted in 2011. Here are some of the surprising findings of the Symantec report. Porn sites u2013 clean, not dirty: Pornography-themed Web sites have long had a reputation as the u201cdark alleywaysu201d of the Internet. In fact, porn sites ranked tenth in the list of the top ten categories of Web sites that are most infected, after automotive themed sites (ranked 8th) and health and medicine sites (ranked 9th). Top on that list: blogs and Web communications, including religious Web sites. That was followed by personally hosted sites, business sites, shopping and education. Valentines, not Viagra: Pharmaceutical themed spam have been the most common, by far, in recent years. That was true again in 2011, during which pharma-spam accounted for almost 4 in 10 spam e-mail messages. But that was a big change from 2010, when three in four spam messages were pharma themed. What filled the void? Sex and dating-themed spam, for one. That category jumped more than 10 percent, to account for around 15% of all spam messages, right after spam about watches and other jewelry, which accounted for around 19 percent of spam messages. Spam stays in the can: Spam e-mail volumes were way down in 2011, Symantec found. Spam volumes dropped by around 20 billion messages year over year, to an average of 75% of all e-mail last year, compared with 88.5% in 2010. While the exact cause of the drop hasnu2019t been proven, Symantec said coordinated take-downs of large botnets including Rustock. USA u2013 home of the bot: The U.S. was the top source of every category of malicious activity except for the creation of malware and the use of spam zombies, where India came first. Around 13% of bot activity originated in the U.S. and around 34% of Web based attacks. Close to half of all phishing Web sites were based in the U.S., Symantec found. In fact, the U.S. got a bit more dangerous in 2011, despite a loud and public conversation, domestically, about cyber security. China, on the other hand, saw a steep drop in malicious activity, which declined by about 10 percent between 2010 and 2011. SCADA bonanza: Reports of vulnerabilities in industrial control and SCADA systems jumped considerably in 2011 to 129, compared to just 15 in 2010. Symantec credited the attention given to the Stuxnet worm for drawing attention to security holes in industrial systems. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b0f6cefc42b00293f2e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "The Appropriately Hyped Stories of 2011", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/appropriately-hyped-stories-2011-123011/76045/", "Date" : "December 30, 2011 , 4:44 pm", "Article" : "Itu2019s that most un-wonderful time of the year: the time when everyone writes fluffy articles full of lists, retrospectives and look-aheads. Even we did it. Many of these lists involve some variation on the theme of most overhyped or least organic or or most awesomest or lowest fat content. This article is not those articles.  Instead, this is the article that will inform you about the stories this year that are neither overhyped nor underhyped. Not the ones that beat you over the head all year, making you long for the days of the Pony Express and six-month news cycles. Nor the ones that slipped by unnoticed and then snuck up you on a week later, which may as well be three years later at this point. No, these are the stories that neither got too much nor too little attention, but exactly the amount of hype, furor and attention that they deserved. Android security You could probably argue that some of the individual bugs and pieces of malware that affected Android this year were overhyped, but the overall problem of security on the Android platform is bad and not getting any better soon. Android apps have been found stealing texts and intercepting phone calls and using root exploits, researchers have found a variety of serious vulnerabilities in the operating system and Google has been mostly quiet about all of this. Expect this giant ball of twine to gather even more string in 2012 as Android continues to grow in popularity and researchers and attackers continue to hammer on it. Privacy I could make a case that there hasnu2019t been a single year yet in which privacy has gotten the proper amount of attention. But this is the end of the year, so why bring down the mood? Privacy is definitely one of the topics that people are sick of hearing about and start to tune out, and thatu2019s a big part of the problem. Look at what happened this year with Carrier IQ. Within about three hours of the first reports of the existence of the companyu2019s software on mobile phones, a lot of people were done with it, saying that carriers had all your data anyway, so why worry. Carrier IQ certainly got beaten into the ground, the larger problem surrounding privacy got a good, solid amount of attention and careful analysis this year. Much of that can be attributed to the work done by folks such as Chris Soghoian and the EFF. Cyber-blabber Now, given the indefensible use of the word cyber throughout the security world, itu2019s almost physically painful to put this on the list. But, at this point you just kind of have to go with it. Mostly, this section is reserved for Duqu, the gift that has kept on giving ever since it debuted in early fall. Duqu got a bum rap initially, because it was dubbed the son of Stuxnet and Stuxnet Jr. and whatever else headline writers could come up with to attach it to that infamous worm. And while it turns out that Duqu and Stuxnet probably were written by the same crew, theyu2019re not much alike at all. Duqu is by far the more interesting and adaptable of the two, and researchers are still trying to decipher all of its components and capabilities lo these many months later. Itu2019s a clever, modular tool designed to be used in a variety of different environments and situations, and researchers are pretty sure it was written by a well-funded, professional team (read: government). So, Duqu was exactly as scary as everyone said, and it may in fact be the harbinger of the Internetu2019s end times. Plus, itu2019s fun to say Duqu. RSA Sure, this is sort of cheating, considering the attack on RSA appeared on our year-end look at the absurdities of 2011. But it wouldnu2019t be a list at all without this one. RSA took a ton of heat for the attack that compromised its SecurID product line and forced the company to reissue millions of the tokens. And rightly so. It was a simple attack that led to a disastrous win for the attackers. But there were a lot of security teams at other companies looking at that incident and saying, man, that couldu2019ve been us. If the big, sophisticated companies can lose that badly, so can anyone else. The intrusion was huge news and thatu2019s the way it should have been. The lesson, as always, is that security is hard, and there are an infinite number of ways to get it wrong and precious few ways to get it right. That, and donu2019t publish explanations of an attack on April Foolu2019s Day. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b116cefc42b00293f32" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Analysis Challenges Stuxnet Origins Story, Suggests Links to Duqu and Other Malware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/analysis-challenges-stuxnet-origins-story-suggests-links-duqu-and-other-malware-123011/76041/", "Date" : "December 30, 2011 , 12:54 pm", "Article" : "An ongoing analysis of the Duqu malware by researchers at Kaspersky Lab finds many links between the two pieces of malicious code and casts doubt on the conventional wisdom about Stuxnetu2019s origins. An analysis of software drivers used by both Stuxnet and the later Duqu malware has found that the both Stuxnet and Duqu are built on an identical platform, which Kaspersky has dubbed the u201ctildedu201d platform, for its use of the tilde (~) character in file names. Moreover, the researchers suggest that the origins of both pieces of malware date to late 2007 or early 2008, and that other pieces of malware may well have been built on the same platform, but were never released in large numbers or detected by mainstream security firms. Duqu first came to light in September and was immediately dubbed a successor to the Stuxnet worm, which is credited with disabling uranium enrichment facilities within Iran. Though Duqu was not written to compromise industrial control systems, as Stuxnet was, it is widely believed to be a sophisitcated piece of malware targeted at a small population of potential victims.u00a0 Writing on the Securelist blog, Kaspersky Labs researcher Alex Gostev traced the development of two key drivers and variants that are used in both Stuxnet and Duqu, as well as two previously unknown drivers that were almost identical to the Stuxnet/Duqu drivers. Gostev suggests that the malware authors behind Stuxnet and Duqu were the same, and that u2013 rather than working tirelessly on one malware creation, they worked simultaneously on multiple malware variants, tinkering and modifying existing code for use in new pieces of malware (and for different purposes) from 2007 through this year. Describing the process that generated the drivers used by both Stuxnet and Duqu, Gostev wrote: u201cA few times a year the authors compile a new version of a driver file, creating a reference file. The primary purpose of this file is to load and execute a main module, which is created separately. It could be Stuxnet, or Duqu or something elseu2026they tweak ready-made files and donu2019t create a new one from scratch. This means they can make as many different driver files as they like, each having exactly the same functionality and creation date. Depending on the aim of the attack and the Trojanu2019s victim, several driver files can then be signed with legitimate digital certificates whose origins remain unknown.u201d Gostev postulates that other malware was built on the u201ctildedu201d Stuxnet platform in the period between 2007 and 2011. u201cStuxnet and Duqu are two of them u2013 there could have been others, which for now remain unknown. The platform continues to develop, which can only mean one thing u2013 weu2019re likely to see more modifications in the future,u201d Gostev writes. Read more of his analysis on the Securelist blog. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b176cefc42b00293f3e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Iran Acknowledges Hack Of Oil Ministry", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/iran-acknowledges-hack-oil-ministry-042312/76470/", "Date" : "April 23, 2012 , 4:15 pm", "Article" : "The Iranian Oil Ministry has acknowledged that a virus outbreak has compromised servers and Web sites used by the Ministry, but denies that any non-public data was exposed. The notice, which was posted on the Web site for the Oil Ministry on Monday, quotes a u00a0Ministry of Petroleum spokesman as saying Ministry was well defended against cyber attacks and that Ministry data was u201cnot damaged in the attack,u201d which affected u201cuser informationu201d only and damaged hard disks on infected systems. u201cPublic servers are isolated from the main servers,u201d preventing damage to sensitive Oil Ministry data, the statement read. The Web site described the attack as coming from a u201cvirus,u201d but Kaspersky Labu2019s research team said the source of the infection wasnu2019t known late Monday. The BBC reported that the Oil Ministry was forced to disconnect key facilities following the attack on Sunday. Those facilities include the massive Kharg Island oil terminal, a conduit through which around 90% of the countryu2019s oil exports flow. The attack comes amid heightened tensions between the West and Iran over that countryu2019s nuclear ambitions. Smarting under international economic sanctions and fearing a military strike by the U.S. or its allies designed to degrade its nuclear enrichment facilities, the Islamic Republic has threatened to cut off the Straight of Hormuz, a key conduit for oil exports from the Gulf. In response, the U.S. has moved two aircraft carrier groups to the Gulf and promised to keep the straight opened to traffic. Iran was, famously, the target of the Stuxnet worm, which was believed to be a creation of Western governments interested in delaying the countryu2019s progress towards a nuclear weapon. The country is also known to have been targeted by other malware in recent months.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b266cefc42b00293f59" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Precision Espionage miniFlame Malware Tied to Flame, Gauss", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/precision-espionage-miniflame-malware-tied-flame-gauss-101512/77113/", "Date" : "October 15, 2012 , 12:30 pm", "Article" : "One of three previously unseen pieces of malware discovered during forensic analysis of the Flame malware command-and-control servers has been identified as a secondary surveillance tool deployed against specially identified targets, and only after an initial Flame or Gauss compromise, researchers said today. MiniFlame, or SPE, was originally thought to be a Flame module, but researchers at Kaspersky Lab and CERT-Bund/BSI determined the program can stand alone as an independent piece of malware, or run as a plug-in for both Flame and Gauss, another state-sponsored attack kit focused on stealing online banking credentials. u201cAfter data is collected [by Flame] and reviewed, a potentially interesting victim is defined and identified, and miniFlame is installed in order to conduct more in-depth surveillance and cyber-espionage,u201d said Alexander Gostev, chief security expert at Kaspersky. Gostev added that his teamu2019s research further cements the tie-ins between the authors of Stuxnet, Duqu, Flame and Gauss. MiniFlame has infected far fewer machines than its siblings (10-20 compromises vs. 700 Flame incidents and 2,500 Gauss incidents) and doesnu2019t have the same geographical preferences. Six miniFlame variants have been found to date and most of its infections have been found in Lebanon. Flame primarily attacked machines in Iran, Israel, Sudan and Syria. u201cThis indicates that [miniFlame] is a tool used for highly targeted attacks, and has probably been used only against very specific targets that have the greatest significance and posing the greatest interest to the attackers,u201d a blog post on Securelist said this morning. MiniFlame is essentially a backdoor. The attackers are able to use it to retrieve any file from an infected machine, or create screenshots while the computer is running a Web browser, Office application, Adobe Reader, instant messenger service or FTP client, Kaspersky said. The malware then uploads what it has stolen to either a dedicated command-and-control server, or one of the Flame C&Cs. The malware also has the capability of infecting a machine with another module that attacks USB drives, using them to store data if a machine is running offline. u201cIf Flame and Gauss were massive spy operations, infecting thousands of users, miniFlame/SPE is a high precision, surgical attack tool,u201d the Securelist post said. MiniFlame is architecturally similar to Flame, and not only operates as data-stealing malware, but provides attackers direct access to infected systems. Researchers believe development of miniFlame began in 2007 and continued into this year. Kaspersky was able to sinkhole several Flame command-and-control domains and miniFlame domains. Between the end of May and the end of September, researchers saw close to 14,000 connections from 90 different IP addresses to those domains, most to servers in Lebanon, but some proxies in France, the United States and Iran. The researchers were also able to monitor 10 commands understood by the malware, instructing everything from writing and sending files to and from the command-and-control servers, to creating screenshots for predefined processes, to sleeping for specified periods of time. The original analysis of the Flame C&C which led to the miniFlame discovery, was reported in September. Researchers from Kaspersky, Symantec, CERT-Bund/BSI and the International Telecommunication Unionu2019s Impact Alliance combined to find three new pieces of malware in addition to Flame and four communications protocolsu2013 OldProtocol; OldProtocolE; SignupProtocol; and RedProtocol (still under development)u2013used by the malware to connect to command and control. The discovery of SPE leaves two more pieces of malware unidentified: SP and IP. Researchers deduce that SP could be an older version of miniFlame/SPE while IP remains unknown. IP is the most recent malware coming from this group, the researchers said. Analysis of the C&C servers in September also determined at least four programmers are on the team behind the attacks, each with varying levels of expertise; additional confirmation was also made that sophisticated cryptography is being used to encrypt data as itu2019s sent between the victimsu2019 machines and the C&C servers. u201cWith Flame, Gauss and miniFlame, we have probably only scratched the surface of the massive cyber-spy operations ongoing in the Middle East. Their true, full purpose remains obscure and the identity of the victims and attackers remain unknown,u201d the miniFlame report said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b356cefc42b00293f76" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "An Unhappy Birthday For Uncle Sam On Cyber Security", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/unhappy-birthday-uncle-sam-cyber-security-070412/76767/", "Date" : "July 4, 2012 , 12:05 pm", "Article" : "Hereu2019s the good news on Americau2019s birthday: the last year has seen the U.S. emerge as an undisputed global leader in the use of offensive cyber operations. Averting another u201cSputniku201d moment, the nationu2019s longest running and most successful democracy blazed new trails in non-kinetic warfare, effectively ending speculation that the worldu2019s lone superpower was asleep at the wheel as nations like China and Russia dashed ahead in the cyber realm.u00a0Now for the bad news: weu2019re screwed. The U.S. was already the target of an untold number of foreign incursions on civilian and military networks before it loosed Stuxnet in an effort to curb Iranu2019s uranium enrichment efforts. Now that the Stuxnet genie is out of the bottle, weu2019ve become a prime target for politically or economically motivated attacks, even as our elected leaders flounder in their efforts to pass much-needed legislation to strengthen the nationu2019s cyber defenses. The evidence is everywhere that the U.S. faces a daunting challenge in securing both public and private networks from intrusions. As Threatpost reported, in just the last week a House Homeland Security subcommittee heard testimony from Gregory Wilshusen, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) Director of Information Security Services that computer-enabled spying and espionage has increased the scope and abilities of countries and private interests that wish to illegally obtain U.S. technology. Cyberu00a0spying has already had u201cserious effects on consumers and businesses,u201d Wilshusen told Congress.u00a0 That testimony followed warnings in May about the threat of cyber attacks on capital markets in the U.S., including banking and financial services. Those threats go beyond sophisticated banking Trojan horse programs that raid consumers accounts. We reported in May on the case of a 33 year old Chinese man who pleaded guilty in U.S. Federal Court to stealing proprietary source code used by the U.S. Federal Reserve to help track billions of dollars in government transfers that occur daily. Hardly a week goes by without news of some kind of attack aimed at the U.S. government, U.S. military or the web of private firms that do business with it. In October, 2011, a report surfaced that indicated that a troubling and persistent virus infection at Creech Air Force base u2013 home of the U.S. militaryu2019s unmanned drone program- was kept secret from senior Air Force cyber security officials for weeks while IT staff in the affected unit at Creech struggled to eradicate the infection. The Trojan was observed logging the keystrokes of remote pilots controlling drones in flight over Afghanistan, Pakistan and other countries.Then, in May, the Department of Homeland Security said it is investigating a string of cyber intrusions targeting companies that operate national gas pipelines in the U.S.u00a0Just this week, we wrote about a new variant of the Sykipot Trojan horse program that has been linked to a spear phishing attack against the aerospace industry. In January, a different version of the same malware was identified that was able to steal the same kind of two factor credentials used by the U.S. Department of Defense for its Common Access Card (CAC). What a coincidence! While the evidence of cyber threats is clear, the U.S. Governmentu2019s response to those threats has been spotty, at best. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) u2013 a kind of Federal Cassandra u2013 has warned repeatedly over the past decade about the need for the Federal Government to improve its cyber preparedness. In July, 2011, it issued a report warning that the U.S. Department of Defenseu2019s efforts to unify its cyber security operations has serious gaps and that the Department is u201cunprepared to meet the current threatu201d of cyber attack.. On Capitol Hill, lawmakers made the smart move of putting new cyber security legislation on the front burner in 2012. But, Washington being what it is, that same legislation bogged down as special-interest politics and partisan squabbling produced the stilted and unpopular bill, CISPA, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act. Whatever its merits in combating cyber attacks, the bill infuriated civil liberties and privacy advocates by seeming to give carte blanche to connected Washington interests u2013 private ISPs and technology firms u2013 to share information with the government on the online behaviors of private citizens. Passed by the House, but opposed by the Senate and the Obama Administration, CISPA and efforts to revamp the governmentu2019s rules for combating cyber crime are stuck in limbo and mired in election year politics. This, despite dire warnings from some of Washington D.C.u2019s leading policy experts that the U.S. is urgently in need of a new policy and ill-prepared for cyber attacks. Flat footed in its response to cyber attacks, the U.S. government is also failing to prepare for the future. A GAO report in November warned that federal cyber security workforce initiatives are in need of better planning and coordination, particularly with regards to human capital. The stud by the governmentu2019s watchdog of the seven federal agencies with the largest IT budgets found that most were beset with inconsistent policies for developing their cyber security workforce. Five of the seven had addressed some key principles in their IT security workforce plans, while the remaining had no concrete plans as of yet to address their workforce needs. And then thereu2019s Stuxnet. There was informed speculation, almost from the first, that the U.S. may have been the author of the ultra-sophisticated worm, and that its purpose was to curb Iranu2019s budding nuclear program by disabling centrifuges used for uranium enrichment in Iranu2019s Natanz facility. That speculation become much more pointed in June with an article by David Sanger in the New York Times that quoted Obama Administration insiders admitting that Stuxnet was a U.S. operation, dubbed u201cOlympic Gamesu201d that was started under the previous administration, and accelerated under Mr. Obamau2019s tenure. That mission was, on the whole, a success. However, its secrecy was compromised when the Stuxnet malware u201cjumped the fenceu201d u2013 spreading well outside of Iran and attracting the attention of the worldu2019s virus experts, who did the Iranian regime a favor by dissecting the malware and pointing fingers at its likely creators. If Stuxnet is our generationu2019s Sputnik, thereu2019s no question that its better to have launched it than to be in the position of watching, helpless, as it drifts overhead. But, in the wake of the latest revelations about Stuxnetu2019s origins, some leading experts on cyber security have warned that the U.S. may come to regret Stuxnet. Writing for the New York Times, industrial control systems security expert Ralph Langner argued that, while the time was ripe for historyu2019s first cyber weapon, the fact is that the United States is u201cnot prepared to defend against such sophisticated cyber-physical attacks that they chose to experiment with in the open.u201d Far from serving as a deterant, Stuxnet was a wake up call for u201cmilitary forces and intelligence services around the globe, along with some terrorists and criminals,u201d Langner warned. Echoing those comments, Mikko Hypponen of the anti virus firm F-Secure wrote in the same paper that the United States, as the worldu2019s largest economy, has u201cthe most to lose from attacks like (Stuxnet). No other country has so much of its economy linked to the online world.u201d In the post Stuxnet world, many crises will have cyber elements in play, as will future wars, Hypponen wrote. u201cThe cyber arms race has now officially started. And nobody seems to know where it will take us.u201d Those are sobering words. And, of course, its not like the U.S. is the only country whose cyber offensive abilities far outstrip its defenses. Weu2019ve written about the Chinese governmentu2019s fondness for cyber espionage, despite an utter lack of security on domestic networks. Nor is it the job of government to perfectly predict the future. But it is fair to say that its the governmentu2019s job to read the writing on the wall and adjust accordingly. Itu2019s not clear that the U.S., despite its many advantages, has done that yet, or u2013 even more troubling u2013 that our zero-sum political culture is capable of even small scale changes right now. If so, the coming years may test us as never before. Stay tunedu2026and happy Independence Day! " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b356cefc42b00293f78" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "TED Global: Misha Glenny Says u2018Hire The Hackersu2019", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ted-global-misha-glenny-says-hire-hackers-091511/75658/", "Date" : "September 15, 2011 , 4:05 pm", "Article" : " The TED talks have long been famous for introducing a wide (albeit wired) audience to The Next Big Thing, whether it was Jeff Hann at NYU demonstrating the Minority Report-style touch-sensitive user interfaces in 2006 u2013 years before the iPhone hit the market u2013 or MITu2019s David Merrillu2019s demonstration of stackable mini computers called Siftables. (OK u2013 weu2019re not sure yet what the heck you can use those for.) Historically, however, computer security has had a low profile at the TED talks. That may be because the concept of security is, by its nature, conservative and applied, rather than brash and theoretical (two of the qualities that can be applied to most TED talks.) But as the profile of cyber security increases, thatu2019s starting to change. We reported on a (great) presentation by malware researcher Mikko Hypponnen of F-Secure on the history of viruses u2013 from Brain to Stuxnet. More recently, a TED talk by UK journalist and international crime expert Misha Glenny has been making the rounds. In it, Glenny takes listeners on a whirlwind tour of the cyber underground, including now-infamous online criminal hideouts like carderplanet,u00a0and notorious cyber criminals like Dimitry Golubov (aka SCRIPT), German Matrix001, Sri Lankan hacker JilSi and Max Vision, aka ICEMAN, (subject of Kevin Poulsenu2019s book KingPin). In his talk, Glenny takes a strong u201cnurture versus natureu201d position, arguing that many of the most talented hackers are immature, or suffer from social and developmental problems. They are, disproportionately, a product of broken homes and communities that blind them to the consequences of their actions, or push them to ply their talents in the black market as a matter of survival. Rather than jailing them, the U.S. and European nations should be hiring them: recruiting their talent as u2013 he argues u2013 countries like Russia and China already do.u00a0 Check it out! " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b476cefc42b00293f92" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Microsoft Previews Massive December Security Updates: 14 Patches, Including Fixes for Duqu, BEAST", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-previews-massive-december-security-updates-14-patches-including-fixes-duqu-beast-120/75982/", "Date" : "December 9, 2011 , 4:58 pm", "Article" : "UPDATE: Microsoft will release 14 security patches next Tuesday, including fixes for security vulnerabilities exploited by the Duqu and BEAST malware. The company released its monthly Advanced Notification for the December Security Bulletin, previewing 14 separate bulletins, three of them rated u201ccritical,u201d indicating they could be used by remote attackers to run malicious code on affected systems and, possibly, contribute to the spread of a worm or virus. The 11 remaining bulletins are rated u201cImportant.u201d Every supported version of Microsoftu2019s Windows operating system is affected by one or more of the 14 patches, as well as the companyu2019s Office Suite for Windows and the Apple Mac OS. u201cSystem administrators will have a large amount of work in front of them as the majority impact Windows itself but Office, Internet Explorer, Windows Media and other components are also being patched,u201d said Kurt Baumgartner, a senior security researcher at Kaspersky Lab.u00a0 Though details of the fixes havenu2019t yet been released, security researchers speculated that one of the three critical bulletins, dubbed u201cBulletin 1u201d will patch a critical vulnerability in the Windows TruType font parsing engine that was exploited by the recent Duqu malware u2013 a Stuxnet-like threat. Duqu was first detected in October and was immediately dubbed u201cStuxnet 2.0u201d because its code shared similarities with the now-infamous worm that attacked Uranium enrichment faciliites within Iran. Subsequent analysis raised questions about those similarities and about Duquu2019s likeness to Stuxnet.u00a0 In response to inquiries,u00a0Jerry Bryan of Microsoftu2019s Trustworthy Computer Group, Speaking to Computerworld,u00a0confirmed that fixes for the TruType parsing vulnerability Duqu used. Also included is a fix for a vulnerability in TLS 1.0 (Transport Layer Security) and SSL 3.0 (Secure Sockets Layer) that was exploited by BEAST (Browser Exploit Against SSL/TLS), a proof of concept piece of malware that was demonstrated by researchers at the recent Ekoparty conference in Argentina.u00a0 Baumgartner said that Microsoft has already taken steps to address the security threat posed by Duqu. In November, the companyu00a0issued a workaround that closed the hole Duquu2019s exploited to access vulnerable kernel code. u201cSystems in highly sensitive locations have been able to defend their systems with this workaround,u201d he said. Still, given the severity of the threat, u201cit would not be surprising to see them finally ship a patch,u201d Baumgartner said.u00a0 Microsoft will release full details of its security updates, the last of the year, on Tuesday, December 13. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b476cefc42b00293f94" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Ten Years After, the Attackers Have Taken the Lead", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ten-years-after-attackers-have-taken-lead-091211/75639/", "Date" : "September 12, 2011 , 11:00 am", "Article" : "In the days following 9/11 we heard alarmist warnings of a coming wave of cyberterrorism. In the early days of the war in Afghanistan when an Al Qaeda computer was found, it was treated as evidence that terrorists knew how to use computers so therefore they would soon be sending worms to shut down or blow up our power plants. During that time I was interviewed on a CNN talk show describing what a terrorist might be doing with a computer that was found to have computer aided design (CAD) software on it.u00a0 I said it might be used to figure out the best place to plant a bomb to cause the most damage to a structure.u00a0 This wasnu2019t cyberterrorism. It was using the computer as an engineering tool.u00a0 Somehow this got lost by the host of the show who kept on plugging away that cyberterror from Al Qaeda was coming soon.u00a0 That never materialized and in the last 10 years I donu2019t think there has been any documented cases of cyberterrorism.  Could there have been or still be cyberterror?u00a0 I donu2019t really think so because while it is easy to shut off computers or steal the information stored on them, it takes a relatively sophisticated group of experts to cause the type of kinetic damage that would be terrorizing.u00a0 If people donu2019t die it isnu2019t really terrorism and while there is a great example in the Stuxnet worm of causing kinetic damage I donu2019t think this is something terrorists would replicate.u00a0 There are much more cost effective and easier ways to reach their goals. We shouldnu2019t rest easy that since we havenu2019t seen the extreme case of cyberterror that everything is safe and sound in cyberspace.u00a0 There are still many vulnerabilities in the computer systems of government and corporate computers that are exploited daily.u00a0 Vulnerabilities have always been there over the last 10 years and donu2019t seem to be abating.u00a0 New technology with brand new vulnerabilities is constantly being deployed and along with each new technology comes new vulnerabilities.u00a0 Some of the technology waves that have brought us new types of vulnerabilities areu00a0 web applications, instant messaging, social networking, WiFi, mobile devices, and installing software over the web. Most of these technologies are still causing us security headaches years after introduction while older technologies introduced in the 90u2019s such as firewalls and Internet servers such as email and web servers have finally been tamed. The number of vulnerabilities hasnu2019t changed dramatically in the last 10 years, just what technologies the vulnerabilities are in.u00a0 Attackers have always been able to leverage this pool of changing yet ever available vulnerabilities to reach their goals.u00a0 What has changed over the last 10 years is the attacker landscape.u00a0 Cyberterrorism never reared its ugly head.u00a0 Cyberwar is still theoretical.u00a0 The big new attacker growth over the past 10 years is the cyber criminal. Techniques to monetize vulnerabilities have steadily improved and become more sophisticated against simple defenses.u00a0 The other big new attacker growth area is the cyber spy.u00a0 We see reports of APT and the organizations that have had their secrets compromised on a daily basis.u00a0 Most recently there has been a dramatic rise in hacktivism. So as I look back over the last 10 years I donu2019t see much of a change in the vulnerability-scape, if you will, but in the threat landscape.u00a0 New classes of attackers have gone mainstream and global.u00a0 They are sophisticated and effective.u00a0 But our defenses have barely gotten better.u00a0 There has been an incremental approach to defenses: deeper packet inspections, more heuristic anti-malware, more auto-update patching, but it hasnu2019t been able to keep up.u00a0 I hope over the next 10 years there are some radical changes in how we perform security or the problem will get dramatically worse.u00a0 The criminals, spies, and hacktivists are here to stay unless we stop them. Chris Wysopal is the CTO of Veracode and one of the founders of the L0pht hacking collective. He has been involved in computer security for more than 15 years. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b5d6cefc42b00293fb8" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "DHS Thinks Some SCADA Problems Are Too Big To Call u201cBugu201d", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/dhs-thinks-some-scada-problems-are-too-big-call-bug-092611/75692/", "Date" : "September 26, 2011 , 7:30 pm", "Article" : "The Stuxnet worm may be the most famous piece of malicious software ever written. When it was first detected, a little over a year ago, the worm sounded a warning to nations around the world that critical infrastructure systems were potential targets of attack for foreign governments and cyber criminal organizations alike.u00a0But with the anniversary of the Stuxnet wormu2019s discovery just past, the Department of Homeland Security admits that it is now reevaluating whether it makes sense to warn the public about all of the security failings of industrial control system (ICS) and SCADA software.u00a0 Changes in the way DHS warns the public and the vendor community about security issues in ICS products could recast certain kinds of vulnerabilities as u201cdesign issuesu201d rather than a security holes, according to a senior DHS cybersecurity official. In an interview with Threatpost, the senior DHS cybersecurity official, who agreed to speak on the condition that his name not be used, said that some of the security problems facing ICS and SCADA systems are just too big to describe as u201cvulnerabilitiesu201d and that issuing vulnerability alerts for them doesnu2019t make sense. SCADA experts working outside the agency, however, wonder if the agency is simply caving in to vendors and ducking responsibility for forcing changes that will secure the nationu2019s critical infrastructure. Speaking at the Applied Control Systems (ACS) Conference last week in Washington, D.C., Marty Edwards, the director of DHSu2019s Industrial Control System Computer Emergency Readiness Team (ICS-CERT) said that the agency is pursuing a different process for handling what it considers the security implications of u201csystemic design featuresu201d in ICS systems apart from the process it uses for warning about security vulnerabilities in those systems. DHS will refrain from issuing ICS-CERT security advisories for problems that it considers u201cdesignu201d issues, rather than software security holes. Edwards said the community needed a different process for addressing systemic design features than the current CERT vulnerability alerting process. u201cCERT is there to provide near real-time, actionable mitigation information. We canu2019t afford to bog down that process by trying to redesign entire control systems from scratch,u201d the senior official told Threatpost on Monday. As an example, the official used a hypothetical situation of an ICS system u2013 or even a whole category of ICS products u2013 that communicate with each other using clear text protocols, which can be easily intercepted and deciphered. u201cIf a control system is designed to use clear text protocol, and upgrading it to make it secure means replacing all the functions that use that protocol, thatu2019s not something weu2019ll alert on from CERT,u201d the senior cyber security official told Threatpost.  If, on the other hand, an ICS product contains a buffer overflow vulnerability that could be exploited, and for which a patch could easily be created and applied, that is something that ICS-CERT would issue an advisory for. The difference, said the DHS official, is that the clear text protocol issue is a u201clarger design processu201d that can take a lot longer to fix. The official cautioned that DHS, through its Control System Security Program (CSSP) isnu2019t ignoring the larger design problems, just taking a longer view to addressing them. u201cIts an entire thought process the community has to go through,u201d he said. But security experts briefed on the agencyu2019s new thinking are concerned. Ralph Langner, an ICS security expert for Langner Communications GmbH, wrote critically of the new approach on his blog last week, arguing that DHS was pursuing a u201csemantic approachu201d to mitigating vulnerabilities in ICS software. u201cThis radically cuts the amount of vulnerabilities in the ICS space by roughly 90%, since the vast majority of security u2018issuesu2019 we have (I try not to call them vulnerabilities) are not bugs, but design flaws. So today everybody has gotten much more secure because so many vulnerabilities just disappeared,u201d Langner wrote. The new thinking about what constitutes a software vulnerability is also a departure from earlier DHS guidance. The DHS/CSSP u201cCatalog of Control Systems Securityu201d (PDF) document defines the term u201cvulnerabilityu201d as u201d A flaw or weakness in a systemu2019s design, implementation, or operation and management that could be exploited to violate the systemu2019s security policy,u201d Langner pointed out. But the DHS official cautioned against making too much of the agencyu2019s shift in approach for software vulnerabilities. DHS and ICS-CERT will almost certainly continue to issue advisories for security holes that are being actively exploited. Besides, the CSSP has many different avenues through which to talk to vendors and critical infrastructure owners. u201cThey understand. They get it and theyu2019re working diligently through the different working groups.u201d The shift by DHS seems intended, in part, as a response to recent press coverage of vulnerabilities discovered in SCADA and ICS software. Researchers like Dillon Beresford of NSS Labs have made headlines by calling out serious and exploitable vulnerabilities in ICS products, including hard coded administrative passwords and denial of service vulnerabilities. Beresford unveiled 18 such vulnerabilities affecting Siemens Step 7 (S7) ICS products at the Black Hat Briefings security conference in Las Vegas in August, and put pressure on officials and vendors to address the problems. ICS CERT issued advisories in July to the industrial control community regarding some of those vulnerabilities. However, behind the scenes, some in the ICS community expressed frustration over the work of researchers like Beresford, whose background is working with more traditional IT systems and networks, not within the industrial control sector. Speaking to Threatpost, the senior DHS cyber security official said DHS is worried that it will be accused of u201ccrying wolfu201d over low level issues or vulnerabilities that are not likely to be actively exploited. u201cIt seems like some folks come into this area and arenu2019t used to ICS nuances and get overly concerned immediately,u201d he told Threatpost. u201cYou have third party researchers who leverage same design deficiancyu00a0in 15 different devices. If (the ICS devices) use a clear text protocol and everybody knows that, its not a vulnerability that it talks clear text,u201d he said. While some of the discoveries by researchers like Beresford may warrant an advisory, he said, others may not. u201cIt may not contain enough uniqueness to warrant an alert. We donu2019t want to spam the industry.u201d What does and doesnu2019t warrant an advisory may come down to the judgement of an ICS-CERT analyst, though DHS has few specific guidelines. u201cIf its a bug that can be patched, weu2019re gonna talk about it. If thereu2019s a buffer overflow or hard coded password that the vendor can fix without re-engineering its products, thatu2019s something weu2019ll issue an alert on,u201d the DHS cyber security official said. However, in other cases, the agency may not. For example, hard coded administrative passwords of the kind that the Stuxnet worm took advantage of in Siemens S7 ICS devices might not qualify as a vulnerability u2013 the existence of the password was well known within ICS circles and was a critical component to the S7 system u2013 so much so that Siemens advised customers not to disable or change it even after it was known to be exploited by Stuxnet. DHS officials declined to speak specifically about Stuxnet. However, in such a case, the DHS official said ICS-CERT may merely advise customers to work with their ICS vendor on a workaround, rather than issue an advisory that forces customers to change or remove the password. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b656cefc42b00293fc9" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Researcher Will Demo Crippling Siemens Attack Using Metasploit", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/researcher-will-demo-crippling-stuxnet-siemens-attack-using-metasploit-090611/75616/", "Date" : "September 6, 2011 , 4:52 pm", "Article" : "For years, thereu2019s been an argument that the sophistication of industrial control systems is enough to keep script kiddies u2013 or low-skilled hackers u2013 away. Well, so much for that.u00a0  Researcher Ralph Langer says that he will use a presentation at an upcoming security conference in Washington D.C. to demonstrate a crippling attack on Siemens S7 (Step 7) Programmable Logic Controllers using the free Metasploit penetration testing tool.u00a0 Writing on his blog, Langner said that the attack he will demonstrate will be similar to one he outlined in July u2013 a generic attack against Siemens S7 Programmable Logic Controllers and modeled after an attack used in the Stuxnet worm. The attack, if successful, could cause industrial machinery controlled by S7 PLCs to u201crun wild.u201d It would also lower the bar for attacking industrial control systems, giving low-skilled hackers a point and click attack using Metasploit.u00a0 Langner said he will demonstrate the attack on Sept. 20 at the 2011 ICS Cyber Security Conference in Washington, D.C. The show is hosted by Applied Control Solutions (ACS). Langer said the demonstration will leverage a Metasploit module written to automate a small, efficient attack against Siemens S7 systems, and that he described in July. In that post, Langner described an attack that used just four lines of code to freeze a Siemens PLC by causing it to skip the execution of its normal control logic. While freezing a PLC isnu2019t necessarily a precise attack, it can be carried out with a minimum or knowledge or overhead, because of the unique characteristics of industrial systems that PLCs control.u00a0 u201cThe physical process that is controlled by a controller operates in real-time according to the laws of physics. Now if the controlleru2019s electrical outputs are frozen, the mechanical, hydraulical, chemical characteristics of the process donu2019t freeze too u2013 they simply run wild, out of control. So for example drives continue to rotate, pumps continue to pump through valves that continue to be open u2013 a recipe for creating scrap product and material damage. If this occurs not only at one station (= controller), but at multiple stations simultaneously, it is easy to end up with damage that might take the victim days to recover from,u201d Langner wrote.u00a0The attack is based on a method used by the Stuxnet authors, who figured out that by affixing attack code as a preamble to the legitimate control logic, meaning the code gets read at the beginning of each controller cycle. The Stuxnet authors figured that they could effectively disable the legitimate code by simply setting a trigger for the code which, when run, would cause the controller to jump back to the beginning of the operation block, skipping (and thereby disabling) any subsequent code, Langner said.Langneru2019s wouldnu2019t be the first Metasploit module to target Siemens products. Three Metasploit modules are available for software made by the company, including two that exploit vulnerabilities on the companyu2019s FactoryLink SCADA platform. In addition, Metasploit is known to be holding on to a number of exploit modules created for the S7 platform by Dillon Beresford of NSS Labs. u00a0Those modules are being held under embargo. u00a0 Langner did early work analyzing the Stuxnet worm and was among the first to speculate publicly that it was created specifically to target uranium enrichment facilities within Iran. He has subsequently warned governments and the private sector about the dangers posed by similar attacks on vulnerable industrial control systems or even Stuxnet variants.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b686cefc42b00293fcd" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Ten Reasons The Diginotar Breach Will Be Bigger Than Stuxnet", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ten-reasons-diginotar-breach-will-be-bigger-stuxnet-090611/75614/", "Date" : "September 6, 2011 , 3:12 pm", "Article" : "by Roel Schouwenberg Editoru2019s note: This story wasu00a0reposted from Securelist.com. In an almost unprecedented event the Dutch minister of internal affairs gave a press conference at 1:15 AM Friday to Saturday night. He announced the Dutch government was revoking trust in Diginotar.u00a0 Diginotar basically consisted of two seperates branches. One branch was a certificate authority which dealt with regular businesses. The other branch was focused on government and called u201cPKIoverheidu201d. The audit conducted on Diginotaru2019s systems showed the integrity of the PKIoverheid authority couldnu2019t be guaranteed. It should be presumed the integrity is broken. At the beginning of last week the Dutch government had vouched for the integrity of the PKIoverheid CA (Certificate Authority). This caused the browser makers to only blacklist the non-goverment CA from Diginotar. Next time around browser makers wonu2019t be quite as trusting. The attack on Diginotar doesnu2019t rival Stuxnet in terms of sophistication or coordination. However, the consequences of the attack on Diginotar will far outweigh those of Stuxnet. The attack on Diginotar will put cyber war on or near the top of the political agenda of Western governments. Hereu2019s a break down of most of the important takeaways from this incident: " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b6d6cefc42b00293fd5" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "How the Duqu Authors May Have Erred", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/how-duqu-authors-may-have-erred-112211/75919/", "Date" : "November 22, 2011 , 2:14 pm", "Article" : "Duqu has been called the spawn of Stuxnet, or maybe some sort of stepchild or second cousin. That initial analysis came from some similarities in the code of the two attack tools, and now that researchers have had more time to pull Duqu apart and see how it works, it seems more and more likely that the two were written by the same group. In the second part of an interview with Costin Raiu, who has done a lot of research on Duqu, Threatpost editor Dennis Fisher talks with Raiu about the similarities to Stuxnet, the targets for Duqu and why the authors may have made a key mistake. Dennis Fisher:u00a0 So when Duqu was first publicized, there was a lot of talk about how it was very closely related to Stuxnet.u00a0 Can you talk a little bit about what the similarities are to Stuxnet and maybe in your opinion whether you think it was actually written by either the same group or somebody who is related to them? Costin Raiu: Yeah.u00a0 So, well, according to my knowledge, the people at CrySyS, the research lab in Hungary, theyu2019re the first one to point the similarities between Duqu and Stuxnet, and they were the first to postulate that both Duqu and Stuxnet are written by the same people.u00a0 But later, itu2019s interesting that other people, they were not so convinced, and they started writing and claiming that Duqu and Stuxnet were written by different people. So, there was u2013 I think, there was a lot of noise, and Iu2019m sure youu2019re aware of that. And obviously, the big question here is what is true? Who is right and who is wrong?u00a0 And before going any further, I will say that we are pretty sure that they have been written by the same people. And let me explain why. First of all, they have a lot of things in common. And here, I will point out the usage of various encryption keys including encryption keys which havenu2019t been made public prior to Duqu. So, there are quite a lot of very good public reports on Stuxnet, such as, for instance, the one by Symantec. But, they do not point out the specific encryption keys which were used u2013 all of them that were used in Stuxnet. And itu2019s quite interesting to see that those encryption keys, those specific magic constants, theyu2019re also used in Duqu. So, up to this point, you can say that the guys who wrote Duqu, they also analyzed Stuxnet in a very, very deep way. And probably they knew more or they even dug further than the public reports on Stuxnet. But then again, we have more stuff such as the injection techniques which are similar between Duqu and Stuxnet. They use the same manner deal with the way they use RPC experts, the kind of communication infrastructure, the usage of zero-day exploits, the usage of stolen certificates. And there are u2013 actually, there are a few more pointers, which I cannot publically disclose, which make us pretty sure that they have been written by the same guy. But, here I would agree with some of the people who said that, u201cActually, you know, theyu2019re not identical.u201d Thatu2019s for sure. There are differences. And one very good example, I guess, is to point out that, letu2019s say, that we have the Microsoft Office and Microsoft Windows. And if you look at the code, you will see differences for sure. But, both Office and Microsoft Windows are from the same publishing house. So, I would say that Duqu and Stuxnet, they are exactly the same. They might have not been written by exactly the same programmers, but theyu2019re u2013 for sure, they come from the same publishing house. Dennis Fisher: Okay. And thatu2019s kind of an important point, because that also lends a little bit of credence to the fact that this is, essentially, a professional operation. This is not an ad hoc group of people doing this.u00a0 This is somebody with an u2013 some kind of goal in mind, whatever it is, and theyu2019re being very professional in their pursuit of that goal.  Costin Raiu: Absolutely. There is no shame to say that the Duqu guys, they are top class. They are some of the best exploit writers in the world, some of the best researchers, security researchers, in the world. At the same time, they have very, very good expertise in creating malicious code and knowing how to stay under the radar. So, to be honest, I believe that a lot of money have been invested both in Stuxnet and Duqu.u00a0 And by a lot of money, I mean tens of millions of dollars. And I suspect that, actually, Duqu shows that they eventually learned some lessons from the Stuxnet fiasco. Why I call it a fiasco is because, okay, from the ISIS report, we know that Stuxnet was successful in slowing down the nuclear program of Iran. So, according to the ISIS report, Stuxnet damaged about 1,000 centrifuges at the uranium enrichment plant at Natanz. But, we also suspect that these guys are very, very upset when the news broke about Stuxnet. And obviously, huge investment, a lot of money basically went down the drain. So, where was the mistake? Why do you think there was a mistake in the case of Stuxnet? Dennis Fisher:u00a0 Well, wouldnu2019t the mistake have been that it, at some point, started infecting Windows machines, and so it came to the attention of people who never shouldu2019ve known about it, right? Costin Raiu: Right. Correct. The fact that Stuxnet was self-replicating, so I think that was a big mistake that whenever you write a piece of code that is self-replicating, you cannot control it. And for instance, I think Robert Morris Jr. learned this the hard way. Replicating code cannot be contained. So, sooner or later, people will find out about the replicating code. So, this was a big lesson they learned from Stuxnet, and this is why Duqu is no longer replicating. Duqu is a Trojan which is designed to be very, very silent, stay under the radar, and avoid detection. But nevertheless, what I think that was their mistake in the case of Duqu, they attacked the wrong people. So, the victim, which the Hungarian CrySyS lab helped, was not such a good idea for them to attack. Dennis Fisher:u00a0 And none of these victims has been made public at this point, right? Costin Raiu:u00a0u00a0 u00a0No, no. Theyu2019re all confidential to protect their privacy. Dennis Fisher: Yeah. So, if youu2019re talking about somebody who invested millions or tens of millions of dollars in this, that narrows the potential creators down to a fairly small pool of people, doesnu2019t it? Costin Raiu: I guess so, yeah. Well, basically, it narrows the pool, basically, to the pool of rich people. Dennis Fisher: Or rich governments perhaps?  Costin Raiu: Perhaps, perhaps. We do think that given all these specific details and a lot of facts that they could have not been created without support from some nation state, one or two three of them. Dennis Fisher: Which is a really interesting conclusion. And itu2019s, I think, something that a lot of people have been convinced has been going on for years now, but we havenu2019t necessarily seen any concrete evidence of it until now. Costin Raiu: Iu2019m not sure that even know that we have some concrete evidence, because, well, these guys are very, very careful.u00a0 And all the steps which I mentioned and the fact theyu2019re burning the bridges behind them, theyu2019re very hard to track. But, theyu2019re very professional, so itu2019s possible we may never find out who these guys were.u00a0 Itu2019s like some of the big mysteries of history like the Kennedy assassination maybe. Dennis Fisher: Costin, are you aware of whether law enforcement in the relevant countries is looking into this? Costin Raiu: Yes, I think so. So, for sure, law enforcement in some countries is looking into this. Itu2019s possible that the law enforcement is other countries is kind of ignoring it. Dennis Fisher: Sort of looking the other way?  Costin Raiu: Correct. Dennis Fisher: So, one of the things that always intrigues me about these kinds of stories, whether itu2019s Stuxnet or Duqu or whatever it happens to be, is these u2013 like you said, the Stuxnet authors made a pretty key mistake.u00a0 And if they had accomplished the goal that they set out to do, we may never have really known what happened. We might not have really heard of Stuxnet if they had been really quiet about it. And these guys, the Duqu authors, like you said, maybe chose the wrong victim or something. But, since there are a couple of these out there that we know about, donu2019t we need to assume that thereu2019s a lot of highly-targeted, custom pieces of malware like this being used that we havenu2019t heard of yet? Costin Raiu: Itu2019s possible. Everybody wondered when we saw Stuxnet one year ago, everybody wondered if Stuxnet was the first of its kind. And later, obviously, everybody wondered if thereu2019s going to be another malware like Stuxnet in the future. And to be honest, when you look at Stuxnet and when you look at Duqu, you see a kind of sophistication, letu2019s say, which you do not usually see in your average Chinese piece of malware like Poison Ivy, malware which has been used to spy into RSA, the malware which has been using the Aurora tech. If you compare that to Duqu, itu2019s like you could say itu2019s like amateurs versus world champions, something like this.u00a0 And this kind of sophistication that you see in Stuxnet and Duqu, and for the trained eye, you see a little bit more than just code.u00a0 You see very high precision.u00a0 You see order.u00a0 You see u2013 how to say u2013 a very, letu2019s say, high intelligence at work and which is leaving, letu2019s say, some clues behind.u00a0 And actually, they love to put all sort of clues into the malware like magic constants.u00a0 They use this magic constants a lot.u00a0 Itu2019s like theyu2019re trying to send a message or just to send us the wrong way.u00a0 But, there is a kind of huge difference between your average malware and Duqu and Stuxnet. Dennis Fisher: Okay, all right. Well, I think weu2019ve scared everyone half to death with this which is good.  Costin Raiu: Well, not necessarily. As I was saying, if youu2019re u2013 letu2019s say, if youu2019re a corporation or even a small and medium business, I seriously doubt that you have to worry about Duqu, because the number of victims around the world is so small. On the other hand, if you have been hit by Duqu and actually can find that out by scanning your computer with a security solution, or the nice folks at CrySyS, they have put together a toolbox which contains some interesting programs that will help you diagnose, letu2019s say, your system to see if you have been hit by Duqu maybe at a previous time. And this is important, because letu2019s say, if you were infected in April, and Duqu has a self-destruct timer which can be something like 30 days. We have also seen 36 days. We have also seen 100 u2013 sorry, 120 days. So, after that timer passes, Duqu removes itself. But, here, I think that they did a mistake. And the mistake is that they do not remove the u2013 all the files, and they do not remove the DQ files, the DF files, DL files which have the stolen information from your PC. And those files have a specific format. And using the CrySyS lab tools, you can search for this kind of files in your network. So, in the case that you find such files, as I was saying, first of all, do not panic. The worst has already passed. They have most likely already stolen what they were after. Dennis Fisher: They already have your product plans. Costin Raiu: Absolutely. They most likely they already collected everything they needed from you. And actually, I thought it was funny that I saw a couple of days ago news which said that Iran now claims to have Duqu under control. Dennis Fisher: Right. Costin Raiu: Which is a bit strange in my opinion given that most of the attacks happened in April, and they were probably gone by June or August. So, they have already finished collecting what they were after maybe three or four months ago. So, yeah, okay, you may have it under control now, but who cares? All the data is gone. This is second part of an edited transcript of a podcast with Costin Raiu. The first part ran on Monday. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b736cefc42b00293fdd" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Stars Malware Said to Target Iran", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-stars-malware-said-target-iran-042511/75159/", "Date" : "April 25, 2011 , 1:55 pm", "Article" : "The Iranian government says it is being targeted by a new piece of malware aimed at its federal computers. The disclosure comes a few months after the countryu2019s nuclear facility was hit by the Stuxnet worm, kicking off a frenzy of cyberwar hysteria and speculation. The new attack on Iran is the work of a piece of malware that the countryu2019s officials have named Stars. Itu2019s unclear at this point whether it is infecting any sensitive systems on the countryu2019s government networks or was simply found on some normal PCs. The countryu2019s Mehr news agency disclosed the attack Monday and said that the governmentu2019s officials are analyzing the attack now. From the Mehr agency report: Fortunately the Iranian experts spotted the computer worm and are still studying the malware, Gholam-Reza Jalali told the Mehr News Agency. No final result has been achieved yet, he added. u201c(However), certain characteristics about the Stars worm have been identified, including that it is compatible with the (targeted) system,u201d Jalali stated.  Stuxnet seems to have been written, at least in part, with the intention of infecting and disabling some esoteric systems at Iranu2019s Bushehr nuclear facility. The malware has been analyzed and dissected by security experts around the world, and while there is still some disagreement on exactly what Stuxnet was meant to do, many experts say that it was quite sophisticated.  No real details of the characteristics of the Stars malware or what it does on an infected system have been revealed at this point, so itu2019s not clear whether the malware has any destructive capabilities or steals sensitive data. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b756cefc42b00293fde" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Anatomy of the Duqu Attacks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/anatomy-duqu-attacks-112111/75916/", "Date" : "November 21, 2011 , 3:51 pm", "Article" : "Stuxnet has become the bogeyman of Internt security and cyberwar, showing up in marketing pitches, PowerPoint presentations and press releases from Washington to Silicon Valley to Tehran. But while Stuxnet has been garnering headlines for more than a year now, the far more serious threat in terms of potential long-term damage has turned out to be Duqu. The malware first came to light in September, but it may have been circulating four or five months before that. Its customizable, modular architecture has been a challenge for researchers seeking to understand its operation and its creatorsu2019 intentions. Threatpost editor Dennis Fisher spoke with Costin Raiu, one of the main researchers working on Duqu at Kaspersky Lab, about the relationship between Stuxnet and Duqu, the possible identity of the attackers and the investigation into its architecture. Dennis Fisher: So, letu2019s try and start at the beginning here. Duqu first sort of popped up a few weeks ago. How exactly was it found?u00a0 And how did it initially start getting connected to Stuxnet? Costin Raiu:u00a0 Right. Okay, so, to be honest, the first reports of Duqu came up in September actually, not October. And we heard about it in a very interesting way. A colleague working for another company sent us a binary, and we searched for the MD5 of that binary on the Internet. So, we found a very interesting weblog page which was apparently maintained by a Hungarian researcher.u00a0 And he was saying something like, u201cLooking for friends or foes of this specific MD5 to talk about it.u201d So, we thought it was very curious, very interesting. We looked at the binary. And the binary itself was interesting. First of all, there was, like, no Internet connection whatsoever. So, the only thing which the binary was doing when called with a special parameter called XXX. So, if you have executed this binary without putting the XXX parameter, then nothing happens. But, if you invoke it with this specific marker, then interesting things happen such as intercepting keystrokes, taking captures of the screen, dumping the configuration of your computer. And all this basically happens in background. And also, data is written to a file in your temporary folder. And this file, first of all, it is compressed. And it collects all this information. So, basically, it grows bigger and bigger and bigger.u00a0 And this file has a very interesting name which is the tilde character and then DQ and then a number dot TMP. So, basically, we observed this this specific Trojan, which we received back in September, it was collecting all sorts of information from your system and dumping it into this file, but not sending it anywhere. So, that was very, very interesting. Why would anybody write a Trojan which steals information but doesnu2019t send it anywhere? Dennis Fisher: Right? Costin Raiu: So, that seemed very odd to us. And to be honest, we didnu2019t think it was really important or anything special simply because it didnu2019t seem to do anything malicious except collect information about your system in a local file. Dennis Fisher: And so, after that, a deeper analysis sort of uncovered the fact that that was only one component of the malware, right? Costin Raiu: Right. So, later u2013 basically, one month later, there was a public news about the Duqu and the fact that there were multiple components. And the file which we received in September was just one of the modules of this sophisticated hacking toolkit. So, then you understand that the way Duqu was written is to make it very hard to detect. Every single component by itself could be meaningless. But when you put them together, basically, interesting things start to happen. So, this Trojan, the info stealer u2013 the so-called u201cinfo stealeru201d component u2013 which collects information from your system, does not get installed in the initial attack. So, you get infected with Duqu, and this only happens through a targeted attack. So u2013 and by the way, I think itu2019s very important to point out that if you got infected with Duqu, and if youu2019re listening to us right now, then the first thing that you should know that youu2019re probably part of a very, very limited number of people in the world. Youu2019re part of an elite, so to say, which had the privilege and the u2013 okay u2013 bad luck of getting infected with this sophisticated cyber espionage tool. Dennis Fisher: So, you should feel special. Costin Raiu: Absolutely. Actually, we pretty much think that every single victim of Duqu is special from a specific point of view, which we cannot disclose for obvious reasons. Dennis Fisher: Yeah. Costin Raiu: But I hope that, actually, we will be able to tell it at some point in time. And basically, when you get infected with Duqu, itu2019s simple, letu2019s say, the basic infrastructure. And then it connects to a command-and-control center which is hardcoded into its configuration files, and it begins u2013 it starts to receive new modules like the info stealer.u00a0 And the info stealer, as I was saying, it doesnu2019t do many suspicious things except, okay, intercepting keyboard or, like, making screenshots. But, the file is stored to disk.u00a0 So, the other, letu2019s say, components, basically, the Duqu infrastructure is responsible for transferring the file from your disk to the command-and-control center and from there to the attacker. And I guess, itu2019s also important to point out that, due to the way the Duqu, letu2019s say, infrastructure has been designed, they created it in such a way that they leave as little footprints, fingerprints, as possible. So, dynamic process injection, no temporary files, no u2013 especially for executables and modules no temporary files are created. So, they get the module from the command-and-control, and they inject it directly into another process without creating any temporary files, and they launch the code there. So, very, very careful, I think, theyu2019re very careful to make sure that these parts, these modules of Duqu, do not get left behind and they do not get discovered. Dennis Fisher: Okay. It appears that theyu2019re using not only a different command-and-control for just about every attack, butu00a0 theyu2019re creating separate drivers and different files for each target that theyu2019re going after. Is that the way itu2019s working? Costin Raiu: Yes. And this is u2013 well, basically, this is all related to the encryption which is employed in Duqu. So, itu2019s a u2013 if youu2019re familiar with the nesting dolls, the Russian matryoshkas, we can pretty much say the same. So, basically, you get a Word document by e-mail. And this Word document contains the exploit for the CVE-2011-3402 vulnerability. And the u2013 inside the Word document, there is an embedded TrueType font file.u00a0 The embedded TrueType font file which contains the exploit for this vulnerability, basically, inside this TrueType font file, the exploit is encrypted.u00a0 So, the exploit decrypts itself in memory, does a number u2013 a couple of checks, and then it fires up a loader. So, basically, at every single point, they make sure that they delete whatever steps happened before, and they transfer control to the next module. And there are a number of different drivers and different modules which are responsible for extracting the Duqu components to disk.u00a0 And basically, there are three files which get created on disk. There is one SYS driver file. There is a small PNF file, a configuration file.u00a0 There is a big PNF file, so the extension is .PNF. And by the way, Stuxnet used the same extensions and this kind of similar mechanism to infect computers and install u2013 basically, to install itself in computers. Dennis Fisher: Okay.  Costin Raiu: So, yet another thing which is similar between Duqu and Stuxnet. And the reason why theyu2019re using unique u2013 kind of unique sets for each target, I guess they also use different encryption, so this makes it harder to detect. Imagine that you add detection for one specific version of the toolkit without knowing that there are other victims. All the other victims, basically, they all have sets encrypted with different keys. So, itu2019s very tailored.u00a0 Itu2019s very, very targeted.u00a0 And as I was saying, not just the encryption is different, but almost in every single case, they use a different command-and-control center. Dennis Fisher: Which makes it, obviously, harder to backtrack to the CnC servers. And I know that one was taken down in India, and some others have been identified, but thatu2019s after the fact, right? Itu2019s after the targets have already been compromised. Costin Raiu: Yeah, absolutely. And well, as far as I know, there is only one u2013 just one organization in the world which has the chance to see and kind of to play with a live Duqu command-and-control center, and that was the Hungarian research lab CrySyS.u00a0 So, they had a couple of days during which they could play with the command-and-control in India, this one that you mentioned.u00a0 And according to their research, this server was up for a kind of long time. So, for some specific reason, they kind of prefer this command-and-control server in India. But as you were saying, weu2019re also aware of other command-and-control center which Duqu used. And actually, at the moment, we are kind of looking into this issue very, very deeply, so to say. Probably, I guess the number of command-and-control centers should be close to a dozen, I guess. Dennis Fisher:u00a0 Can you estimate the number of infections that you know about at this point?u00a0 Can you give us a range, like, between 1 and 100?  Costin Raiu: Yes. I would suspect less than 50. Dennis Fisher: Wow. Costin Raiu: Of course, I may be wrong, but this is what I suspect u2013 somewhere less than 50 infections around the world. So, very, very, very small number, actually, and very, very specific targets. Dennis Fisher:u00a0 And you mention that thereu2019s u2013 it took a while to figure out the complete picture of what Duqu was doing, because at first you just saw the info stealer component, and then you started seeing these other components. Are you confident at this point that youu2019ve found all of the components of at least the one specific version of Duqu? Costin Raiu: No, definitely not. Dennis Fisher: Okay. Costin Raiu: So, actually, Iu2019m sure of the opposite. Iu2019m sure that we havenu2019t seen all the single components.u00a0 And basically, we are aware of only two different info stealer components. One of them is the original one that was located by CrySyS, and itu2019s a very, very strange case and a big question mark for everybody what happened in that case. So, on the machine where they found this file on disk, and remember that I said that they do not create these files on disk.u00a0 Instead, they run them directly from memory.But, what I think that happened here is the following. Basically, if you download the modules from the command-and-control server and you run them dynamically, then the next time the system is rebooted, they lose the ability to intercept whatu2019s going on. And for probably for very high profile targets, they need this capability. They need this persistence. So, they need to be able to continue to sniff passwords and to make screenshots and to steal files even after reboot, so they need to survive after reboots. And I suspect that in that case they dumped the info stealer component to disk and choose u2013 forced it to execute every time they needed it or on every boot. So, I think this could be one explanation, because the other info stealer that we are aware of that was intercepted on 18th of October, that one was never written to disk.u00a0 So, it was, basically, sniffed from the network traffic. Dennis Fisher: Wow. Costin Raiu: And how do I know that actually there are more info stealer components?u00a0 Basically, itu2019s easy. The info stealer component that we have creates files, as I was saying, with the DQ name. But, we have also been able to identify compromised, like infected, customers which had files, now not just DQ files, but also DF files and DO files.u00a0 And these are very interesting, particularly the DF files, because the DF files, they are a bit different from the DQ files from the point of view that they have documents inside. So, they must have been created by a specific version of the info stealer which was collecting documents from disk, documents such as Word files, Excel files, source codes, AutoCAD documents and so on. And this specific version which creates the DF files and steals documents, we do not have.u00a0 And this probably exist at the u2013 I u2013 we suspect that it existed somewhere around April, May, June. But later, it kind of disappeared, so the guys behind Duqu stopped using it. Dennis Fisher: So, for one reason or another, they moved onto a different tactic? Costin Raiu: Yeah, they removed this functionality from the info stealer. Dennis Fisher: So, thatu2019s a fairly good indication that theyu2019re obviously paying attention to whatu2019s going on, and theyu2019re adjusting as they go along for each specific target that theyu2019re interested in. Costin Raiu: Absolutely. This is part one of an edited transcript of a podcast with Costin Raiu. The second part will run tomorrow. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b7c6cefc42b00293fec" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Costin Raiu on Duqu, Stuxnet and Targeted Attacks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/costin-raiu-duqu-stuxnet-and-targeted-attacks-111611/75903/", "Date" : "November 16, 2011 , 5:09 pm", "Article" : "Dennis Fisher talks with malware researcher Costin Raiu about the investigation into Duqu, the likelihood that it was written by the same team as Stuxnet, whether a government is behind its development and what mistakes the authors made.  *Podcast audio courtesy of sykboy65 Subscribe to the Digital Underground podcast onu00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b806cefc42b00293ff2" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Researchers u2018Convincedu2019 Duqu Written By Same Group as Stuxnet", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/researchers-convinced-duqu-written-same-group-stuxnet-111611/75902/", "Date" : "November 16, 2011 , 5:07 pm", "Article" : "Researchers are fairly confident now that whoever wrote the Duqu malware also was involved in some way in developing the Stuxnet worm. Theyu2019re also confident that they have not yet identified all of the individual components of Duqu, meaning that there are potentially some other capabilities that havenu2019t been documented yet. Despite its huge public profile, Duqu is not a widespread piece of malware. In fact, there probably arenu2019t more than a few dozen infections at this point, experts say. The malware is being used in highly specific attacks against carefully chosen targets, and in virtually every known case, the attackers have used different encryption methods and different files. This makes detection difficult, and it also shows that the attackers arenu2019t in a hurry. Theyu2019re taking their time and being quite careful about the way that they conduct the attacks. u201cIu2019d guess there are somewhere less than fifty infections around the world. Itu2019s a very small number of targets,u201d Costin Raiu, director of global research and analysis at Kaspersky Lab, who has done much of the analysis of Duqu, said in a podcast interview. When the first Duqu infection was discovered, the first component that showed up didnu2019t have the ability to connect to the Internet and was simply collecting data about the infected machine. It wasnu2019t sending that data out to a remote machine. Researchers were puzzled, so they began looking into it more deeply and began identifying more and more components linked to the attack, eventually getting to the point where they had a reasonably good picture of what Duqu does and how it works. The components differ from infection to infection, as does the encryption routine, Raiu said. But he doesnu2019t think that all of the components have even been identified at this point. u201cDefinitely not. We havenu2019t seen all of the individual components. Weu2019ve only seen two infostealers,u201d Raiu said. There was a lot of speculation when Duqu first emerged about whether the attack was the work of the same groupu2013still unknownu2013that had created Stuxnet and unleashed it on Iranu2019s nuclear facilities last year. Some of that was centered on supposed similarities in the code between the two pieces of malware, but that was before many of the individual components of Duqu had been identified and analyzed. Now that the analysis and research into the Duqu malware have advanced a bit, researchers say theyu2019ve found more evidence that points to the malware being the work of the Stuxnet authors or their close associates. u201cIu2019m convinced itu2019s the same group,u201d Raiu said. He added that it may not be the same exact developers who wrote Stuxnet, but itu2019s certainly the work of the same u201cpublishing houseu201d, a group that Raiu said likely invested tens of millions of dollars in the malwareu2019s development and deployment. That points to a small group of potential creators, a group that would have to include governments. But itu2019s possiblt that the attackersu2019 identities will stay hidden for a long time. u201cWe may never know who these guys are,u201d Raiu said. This post was edited on Nov. 16 to fix grammatical errors.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b916cefc42b0029400f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Early Stuxnet Variants Used u2018Cunningu2019 Hack of AutoRun to Spread", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/early-stuxnet-variants-used-cunning-hack-autorun-spread-092410/74514/", "Date" : "September 24, 2010 , 4:43 pm", "Article" : "Early versions of the Stuxnet worm used a novel and cunning method to manipulate Windows Autorun feature in order to spread, according to information published by a Symantec Researcher who helped analyze the worm after it was first identified.  Writing on the Symantec Connect blog, Symantec researcher Liam O Murchu detailed one method that early instances of the worm used to infect machines from infected USB drives that many security researchers believe were used to propagate the worm. The information provides new indication about the sophistication of the threat, as well as its evolution over time.  O Murchu was a lead researcher responsible for analyzing Stuxnet after it was first publicly reported and, along with researchers at Kaspersky Lab, discovered the recently patched Windows Print Spooler Service vulnerability that the worm used to infect vulnerable systems. In recent days, he has revealed that the Print Spooler hole was publicly disclosed in a Polish hacking magazine more than a year after he and others independently discovered it as part of the Stuxnet post mortem.  Security experts initially focused on Stuxnetu2019s use of an until-then unknown flaw in the way Windows parses desktop shortcut (LNK format) files to spread from infected USBs to host systems. Microsoft published a tool to fix the LNK vulnerability in July. However, O Murchu reveals in his blog post that the addition of the LNK exploit was a later development in the life of the worm u2013 dating to approximately March, 2010. Earlier versions of the worm used a different method to jump from USB drives to vulnerable Windows systems, which O Murchuu00a0describes as a u2018cunningu2019 misappropriation of the AutoRun feature, a standard component on Windows systems since Windows 95 that allows application developers to dictate a series of actions that will take place when external media like CD ROMs, DVDs or USB flash drives are inserted into systems running Windows. The Stuxnet authors did not discover a vulnerability in AutoRun, O Murchuu00a0wrote. Instead, they discovered a flaw in the way the function processes instructions from autorun.inf files. That flaw allowed the Stuxnet authors to craft an autorun.inf file that contained both legitimate AutoRun commands and the malicious executable. The finished fileu00a0could be interpreted as either an executable file or as a correctly formatted autorun.inf file, O Murcho wrote. Thus the autorun.inf file would allow the USB drive to load on the Windows system, and launch the Stuxnet payload on the system, he said. If that failed, the authors also planted a bogus u201cOpenu201d command on the context (or right-click) menu for the USB drive. Users who activated the context menu and clicked on the bogus Open command would launch the Stuxnet malware invisibly in the background, O Murcho wrote.u00a0 The latest details on Stuxnet come amid mounting speculation about the source and purposes of Stuxnet. Nation-state involvement was suspected with Stuxnet from early on, given the wormu2019s focus on industrial control systems manufactured by Siemens. More recently, though, some security experts have openly speculated that the worm was designed as a stealth, targeted attack on nuclear facilities in Iran, but jumped the fence.u00a0 O Murchuu2019s post is also ahead of presentations by O Murchu and Kaspersky Lab researcher Alexander Gostev u00a0at the annual Virus Bulletin Conference in Vancouver that will divulge further details about the inner functionings of the worm. At least two of the previously undisclosed, or u201czero dayu201d vulnerabilities used by Stuxnet to take control of systems are still unpatched and little is known about them.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b9d6cefc42b00294025" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Cisco:  Web Attacks, Spam Dog Enterprises in Q3", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cisco-web-attacks-spam-dog-enterprises-q3-111710/74681/", "Date" : "November 17, 2010 , 3:32 pm", "Article" : "Web based attacks and botnets kept enterprises on the defensive in the third quarter, 2010, according to data released by Cisco Systems.u00a0 The companyu2019s latest Global Threat Report u2013 a compendium of security data compiled from across the networking giantu2019s customer base u2013 shows that the average enterprise was targeted by 133 Web-based malware attacks a month during July, August and September.u00a0 The report, which was released on Wednesday, presents a snapshot of enterprise-focused malicious activity and shows that Web-based attacks, botnets and spam continue to be the most common threats facing enterprises across different verticals.u00a0 On the topic of Web-based attacks, Cisco said the majority of the attacks it identified u2013 65% u2013 were blocked in some fashion u2013 for example, using Ciscou2019s ScanSafe Web filtering technology. Of those attacks that were successfully carried out, those targeting security holes in Sun Java, Adobeu2019s Reader and Acrobat applications and the Flash presentation technology were the most common, Cisco said.u00a0 SQL injection attacks, a common form of Web based attack, were the single biggest category of eventu00a0handledu00a0by Ciscou2019s Remote Operations Services (ROS) on behalf of customers in Q3. Fully 36 percent of the events handled by ROS were related to SQL injection during the summer months.u00a0 The SCADA-sniffing Stuxnet worm, which was a focus of media coverage, also affected Cisco customers. Stuxnet-related issues accounted for around 5% of the issues handled by Cisco ROS during the summer months. Much more prevalent were Rustock botnet infections, which made up 21% of all the ROS issues in Q3.  Rustock was a leading source of spam message traffic in the first half of 2010 and its takedown, as well as those of other spam-spewing botnets, has been registered as a drop in spam volume, especially in August. Kaspersky Labu2019s Q3 Spam report found that, and Ciscou2019s global spam trend data also found a drop in spam volume between August and September u2013 albeit from a eye-popping 326 billion messages a day in August to a only somewhat less eye-popping 257 billion per day in September.u00a0  Finally, messages masquerading as legitimate e-mail from social network LinkedIn hit Ciscou2019s corporate clients in a big way. Spoofed LinkedIn mail comprised 31% of all spam intercepted by Cisco at the height of the attacks in late September and early October. Those messages contained links to drive by download Web sites that pushed out variants of the Zeus Trojan, according to Cisco. u00a0 Ciscou2019s Third Quarter, 2010 Global Threat Report is available for download.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365b9d6cefc42b00294024" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Microsoft Missed 2009 Published Article on Stuxnet-Type Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-missed-2009-published-article-stuxnet-type-attack-092310/74508/", "Date" : "September 23, 2010 , 3:13 pm", "Article" : "A security flaw affecting Microsoftu2019s Windows operating system that was exploited by the Stuxnet worm was publicly disclosed more than a year before the worm appeared, according to a researcher at Symantec Corp.u00a0 On September 17, Symantec researcher Liam O Murchu noted on that companyu2019s Connect blog that a security publication in April, 2009 had described the same flaw in the Windows Print Spooler Service function that Stuxnet used. Microsoft disclosed and patched the hole in its September security updateu00a0on September 14, saying it learned of the vulnerability from researchers at Kaspersky Lab. O Murchu was one of a handful of security researchers who discovered the Print Spooler Serviceu00a0hole as part of a forensic analysis of Stuxnet. The vulnerability, which was believed at the time to be previously undisclosed, affects most versions of Windows, could allow remote code to be run on vulnerable systems. Microsoft issued a security update, MS10-061, closing the hole and commending researchers at Kaspersky Lab and Symantec for relaying information about the vulnerability.u00a0 However, it now appears that information about the flaw was in the public domain for more than a year before Stuxnet first appeared, buried in the pages of Hakin9, a respected bimonthly magazine published out of Warsaw, Poland.u00a0An article by security researcher Carsten Ku00f6hler describes how shared network printer functionality on Windows can be used to elevate the local useru2019s privileges or to gain command line access to network print servers. The article details both privilege escalation attacks and attack code for carrying out remote code excecution on a vulnerable Windows system. O Morchu said that Microsoft has confirmed that the vulnerability described by u00a0Carsten Ku00f6hleru00a0u00a0is the same as the hole that was patched by MS10-061. Microsoft did not immediately respond to requests for comment, but a company spokesman also acknowledged, in a published report, that details of the hole were discussed in a security publication in April, 2009, but said that the company was not made aware of the issue at the time.u00a0 The Print Spooler Service hole was just one of four Windows security flaws that were believed to be unknown at the time Stuxnet was identified in the wild. Three other flaws have yet to be patched by Microsoft, which promises fixes in the coming months.  The sophistication of the worm and its ability to compromise industrial control systems by Siemens Inc. has led to speculation that Stuxnet was the work of state-sponsored hackersu00a0and may have had a specific target in mind. In recent days, attention has turned to Iran and the countryu2019s controversial Bushehr nuclear reactor. Iran had the highest rate of Stuxnet infections in the world, and some speculate that the worm started as a targeted attack against Bushehr or related facilities, but then jumped the fence to India and other countries.u00a0 Attention now shifts to the researcher in question,u00a0Carsten Ku00f6hler, who is described as a former Ernst & Young employee who now u201cworks as an information systems security expert for a European institution.u201d Researchers typically relay their findings to Microsoftu2019s Security Response Center in advance of, or at the time they decide to go public. After a dust up with Google, the company recently revised its policy of u201cresponsible disclosureu201d to advocate u201ccoordinated vulnerability disclosure,u201d encouraging researchers to give the company an opportunity to patch security holes before details of them are made public. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ba36cefc42b00294031" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Study: Three Of Four Energy Firms Had Data Breach In Last Year", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/study-three-four-energy-firms-had-data-breach-last-year-040511/75111/", "Date" : "April 5, 2011 , 9:13 pm", "Article" : "Three quarters of global energy corporations have suffered one or more data breaches in the last 12 months, according to a new survey by The Ponemon Institute, which finds evidence of widespread shortcomings in the energy and utilities vertical.  The report, u201cThe State of IT Security: Study of Utilities and Energy Companiesu201d was released on Wednesday by The Ponemon Institute. The survey, of 291 IT and IT security workers, paints a grim picture of dispirited workers, absent management, outdated protections andu00a0 mounting threats. The report is a stark warning about the vulnerability of critical energy infrastructure at a time when malicious programs like Stuxnet demonstrate that energy firms, utilities and other critical infrastructure have the eye of malicious hackers, said Tom Turner, an executive at Q1 Labs in Waltham, Massachusetts, which sponsored the Ponemon study.  Long perceived to be beyond the attention of hackers, energy firms and utilities now report that they are being targeted. In the Ponemon study, 76% of the IT security staff interviewed reported that their organization had experienced u201cone or more data breachesu201d in the last 12 months. A similar number u2013 69% u2013 said they felt a data breach was likely to occur in the next 12 months, Ponemon said.  Part of the reason for the pessimistic attitude may be a pervasive view, among those surveyed, that their employeru2019s IT security resources are being misdirected. Almost all u2013 96% u2013 said that complying with industry related regulation like NERC was u201cvery difficultu201d and 77% professed the opinion that doing so would not improve their organizationu2019s security readiness. Still: compliance related objectives were a top priority for energy firms, second only to availability of service, the study found. When asked about the threats they take the most seriously, respondents to the Ponemon survey listed malicious or negligent insiders as the top threat. However, just 5% of respondents said that ranked as their top priority. Instead, the availability of service (minimizing downtime) was the top-ranked goal of 55%. Just 14% said protecting against cyber attacks was a top priority of their IT security program.  Energy firms and public- and private utilities operated in isolation for many years, relying on their obscurity and u201cair gap,u201d or physically separate, networks for security. But with a massive shift to common IP based platforms in the last decade, those air gaps have disappeared, said Turner. However, the IT security culture they spawned lingers on: IT workers in the energy sector tend to be older and greyer than their counterparts elsewhere (the average survey respondent had 11 years of experience). Those workers now have to adjust to a fast-changing world that includes more complex links between business and production networks and the advent of new infrastructure like Internet-connected smart meters, Turner said.  Unlike firms in other verticals, such as financial services or retail, energy firms have fewer financial resources at their disposal for addressing cybersecurity. They must also contend with a complex physical and IT infrastructure, including Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems that have not traditionally been a focus of IT security investment. Add to that the pressure to keep electric and other utilities online at all times, and IT security falls down on the list of priorities, said Turner of Q1 Labs.  Countless reports have shone a light on deficiencies in addressing the security of SCADA systems and the networks that large energy companies and utilities operate. SCADA vendors have been shown to be slow to respond to reports of serious security holes in their software. At the same time, security researchers are finding and publishing more of those holes and creating tools to make it easier to locate Internet-connected SCADA and industrial control systems that might be targets of attack. The Stuxnet worm revealed that sophisticated attackers u2013 state sponsored and otherwise u2013 had the knowledge and wherewithal to attack specialized SCADA and industrial control systems. Turner said the industry would need to shift from a security approach that emphasizes physical protections to one that makes IT security a strategic imperative for senior management.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ba46cefc42b00294033" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "SEO Poisoned Sites Still Slipping By Google", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/seo-poisoned-sites-still-slipping-google-012111/74869/", "Date" : "January 21, 2011 , 6:57 pm", "Article" : "Attacksnthat use search engine optimization to push malicious pages into the top rankings on search engine results are on the rise in 2011, but new research from zScaler suggests that efforts to identify and block the pages are paying meager dividends.  A blog post by Web security firm zScaler notes that Googleu2019s own data shows it spots just more than one in two malicious links served up by its search engine. Google reports thatnthey are flagging 52 percent of all malicious links rendered by their searchnengine. u00a0When it comes to malicious linksnthat lead to malware infected pages, Google flags a slightly higher 57 percent.nStill, this only accounts for 44 percent of all spam across the Web, zScaler says.  Search engine optimization proved to be a popular tool for malicious hackers in 2010. Malicious Web sites sprung up to capitalize on everything from the World Cup to the Stuxnet worm, while reports noted SEO campaigns pushing traffic to fake search engines and malicious Android mobile applications.  Despite a drop innthe spam results per search, researchers are still finding Blackhat SEO spamnlinks within the first page of many Google searches, and it appears as if thentotal amount of such spam across the Web is up. Overall though, Google hasnimproved the situation by decreasing the prevalence of spam results on thenfirst page of their searches, zScaler notes. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ba76cefc42b00294037" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Week in Security: Stuxnet Revelations and Black Hat Happenings", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/week-security-stuxnet-revelations-and-black-hat-happenings-012111/74866/", "Date" : "January 21, 2011 , 4:09 pm", "Article" : "Stuxnet chat saturated the news this week after the New York Times got the cyber security echo chamber going with a story delving into the mysterious worm. But Stuxnet was hardly the only news this week, which also saw new research from the Black Hat Briefings conference in Washington D.C. and progress on the strange disappearance of security researcher Dancho Danchev. Read on for the full week in review. Stuxnet led the headlines this week, after the New York Time suggested the worm was the product of a joint U.S.-Israeli operation to hamper Iranu2019s uranium enrichment program. But in a Black Hat talk given Tuesday, security consultant Tom Parker delved into Stuxnet and concluded that the worm wasnu2019t u201call that.u201d In particular, Parker argued that its developers may have not been as advanced as the press has purported. After using a tool he created to analyze code in Stuxnet and other popular worms, Parker called Stuxnet fairly low quality and reasoned: u201cThis was probably not a western state. There were too many mistakes made. Thereu2019s a lot that went wrong.u201d Cryptographer Nate Lawson chipped in with his own thoughts on Monday, alluding to the laziness of the wormu2019s authors when it came to concealing the payload and targets. u201cRather than being proud of its stealth and targeting, the authors should be embarrassed at their amateur approach to hiding the payload,u201d Lawson wrote. A post on Wednesday examined theories on the Stuxnet from journalists Catherine Collins and Douglas Frantz. In their new book, Fallout: The True Story of the CIAu2019s Secret War on Nuclear Trafficking, they posit that Stuxnet is just the latest in a years-long effort by the U.S. and its allies to prevent nuclear proliferation. Attacks against mobile devices were a hit this week at Black Hat. One of the more out of the ordinary attacks was developed by researcher Ralf-Philipp Weinmann. The attack allows Weinmann to send packets over the air, crash a phone, reboot it and allow an attacker to install a rootkit or backdoor. Technical in nature, the attack took nearly a year to perfect, according to the researcher. The news falls in line with predictions culled from Cisco Systemu2019s 2010 Annual Report, released on Wednesday. The report foresees 2011 being fraught with mobile device insecurities, particularly on iPhones and Android phones, as well as the further proliferation of the Zeus botnet. Itu2019s clear Zeus isnu2019t slowing down, but is expanding on more fronts. There was the news, this week, that the botnet has partnered with SpyEye to create a mega-botnet, it wouldnu2019t be surprising if we saw more intricate bots surface as the months go on. A report by Trusteer this week asserts the botnet has evolved so much itu2019s even begun targeting online payment systems. Firms like Nochex, Web Money and Money Booker have been hit over the last few months, suggesting a new pattern for the New Year. What did you find interesting this week? Dennis continued reporting from Black Hat on Thursday and covered a talk where Ryan Kazanciyan and Sean Coyne, consultants from Mandiant, reviewed just how attackers steal data from their victims. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bad6cefc42b00294044" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Symantec: Stuxnet Likely Targeted Uranium Enrichment Systems", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/symantec-stuxnet-likely-targeted-uranium-enrichment-systems-111510/74672/", "Date" : "November 15, 2010 , 5:06 pm", "Article" : "Symantecu2019s not saying that the Stuxnet worm was a state-sponsored creation designed to take out the centrifuges that power Iranu2019s controversial uranium enrichment program. The companyu2019s just saying that if someone can come up with another explanation that pieces together the latest analysis of the worm, theyu2019d love to hear it.u00a0 In a blog post on November 12, Symantec researcher Eric Chien said that the company had finally pierced the veil on Stuxnet and now understands not only what kind of industrial control equipment Stuxnet was written to exploit, but also how it was programmed to manipulate that equipment.  The analysis, which was possible after a Dutch researcher responded to Symantecu2019s public request for assistance, lends credence to the theory that Stuxnet was targeted at centrifuges that were used for uranium enrichment in Iran.u00a0 Symantec has done the most extensive private-sector analysis of the Stuxnet worm, and made much of what it has learned public through posts on the Symantec Connect blog and presentations. At the Virus Bulletin Conference in September, researcher Liam Ou2019Murchu revealed that Stuxnet targeted programmable logic controllers (PLCs)u00a0by Siemens Inc. and probably disabled u00a0machinery connected to them.u00a0At that time, however, Ou2019Murchu said that Symantec still didnu2019t know what types of machinery the targeted logic controllers were connectednto. u00a0 In the intervening months, however, Symantec received some valuable help from what the company described as a Dutch expert with knowledge of the Profibus network adapter cards that Symantec had determined were used to connect to the type of PLCs that Stuxnet targeted. That information permitted Symantec to do a deeper analysis of Stuxnet that revealed the PLCs Stuxnet affected were programmed to operate frequency converter drives u2013 common components of industrial control systems that modify the frequency of output to control of speed of another component, such as a motor. Specifically, Symantec learned that the kinds of u00a0frequency converter drives that Stuxnet was attempting to control come from just two vendors: one headquartered in Finland, the other in Tehran, Iran. Furthermore, the company said worm was looking for drives operating at very high frequencies u2014 807 Hz to 1210 Hz u2014 relative to drives used for most industrial control systems. Th According to the post, one application for drives running at that frequency is uranium enrichment; the U.S. governmentu2019s Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) controls the export of converter drives that can support output over 600 Hz for that reason, Chien notes. And, while Symantec said it canu2019t confirm that the motors targeted by Stuxnet were being used for that purpose, the company u201cwould be interested in hearing what other applications use frequency converter drives at these frequencies.u201d Assuming that the motors Stuxnet was attempting to control were hooked up to centrifuges used for uranium enrichment, the wormu2019s code would have made a hash of it: monitoring the frequency converters for a time to understand their behavior, then intermittently changing their output for short periods of time to sabotage the system, Chien wrote.  Symantecu2019s analysis is just one take on the Stuxnet worm and is by no means definitive. While the worm did disproportionately affect Iran, it spread the most widely inside India. In addition, the company is careful to say that there are many applications for frequency converters and that it is possible that those targeted by Stuxnet were not running centrifuges.u00a0 Symantec has updated its analysis of Stuxnet to include the new information on the intended target of the worm.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bb06cefc42b00294047" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "EMC Buys Security Firm NetWitness", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/emc-buys-security-firm-netwitness-040411/75101/", "Date" : "April 4, 2011 , 4:07 pm", "Article" : "UPDATE: Call it u2018dancing with the girl that brought u2018ya,u2019: two weeks after it disclosed a serious security breach at its RSA Security Division, tech firm EMC said it was buying NetWitness, a threat analysis firm that helped it detect the breach in the first place.  EMC said on Monday that it had acquired NetWitness for an undisclosed sum on April 1. The company will operate as part of RSA, EMCu2019s Security Division. The company said that NetWitnessu2019 technologies would allow it to detect and remove so-called u201cadvanced threatsu201d from customer networks. NetWitnessu2019 network monitoring technology will operate as a separate line of business under RSA, according to a statement from NetWitness.  The deal for the five year-old, Herndon, Virginia company is the latest sign that organizations are struggling to address attacks from so-called u201cadvanced persistent threatsu201d u2013 slow and deliberate attackers who use a combination of social engineering, custom malicious code and, often, exploit code for previously unknown security holes in common products to gain a foothold on sensitive networks.  All those factors appeared to play a role in an attack on RSA, itself, that was first disclosed on March 17. In a blog post and analyst conference call on Friday, RSA said that a compromise of systems holding intellectual property about its SecurID strong authentication product combinedu00a0 phishing e-mail messages containing a Microsoft Excel Spreadsheet that, when opened, ran a zero-day exploit of a known Adobe Flash vulnerabilityu00a0 (CVE-2011-0609). That was used to install variant of a known Trojan horse program on the infected systems. The attackers then moved laterally within the organization from relatively low level employees to those with access to more sensitive systems.  In a conference with analysts, Art Coviello, Executive Chairman, RSA, and Uri Rivner, Head of New Technologies, Consumer Identity Protection, credited NetWitnessu2019 products in stopping the breach.u00a0 u201cThey were a crucial component of our tool set that we used. That with our people is what contained this,u201d he said. Founded in 2006, NetWitness makes a range of analysis tools, with names like Informer andnInvestigator, that compile, index and analyze a wide range of networknactivities for signs of malicious activity. The company has seen its revenue grow by leaps andnbounds, as organizations within the government, financial services andntechnology sectors went looking for tools that could spot the subtlensigns of network intrusions u2013 NetWitnessu2019 specialty. The companynnow employs 130 people, almost doubling in size in the last year.nRevenues for 2010 are estimated to have more than doubled, also, inn2010, from around $20 millionu00a0 in 2009 and just $2.7m in 2007. Thatncould put the purchase price for the firm anywhere between $200m andnmore than $400 million, according to analyst projections. BothnNetWitness and EMC declined to disclose revenues or the purchase price. EMCu2019s interest in NetWitness predates the breach. Rumors of the acquisition had been circulating for weeks and prior to the disclosure of the breach.  Josh Corman, research director for the Enterprise Security Practice at The 451 Group, an industry analyst firm, said that the breach at RSA, along with those at certificate authority Comodo, high tech firm HBGary and the so-called u201cAurorau201d attacks on Google and other firms have pushed concerns about targeted attacks to a u201csaturation level.u201d u201cClearly we have a problem, here,u201d Corman said.  The NetWitness acquisition shows EMC and its RSA division betting that, in light of those incidents, companies will be looking to make investments that bear measurably on their security posture, rather than just investing to satisfy auditors u2013 as has been the case in recent years.  NetWitnessu2019 technology has traditionally been adopted by large enterprises looking for cutting edge technology, or those that have been the subject of targeted attacks, Corman said. Being part of a larger and more established firm could give rank and file enterprises more confidence investing in NetWitness and extend the benefits of its technology into more companies.  However, Corman said that thereu2019s a shortage of IT workers with the knowledge of networking and security to make the best use of sophisticated tools like NetWitness. u201cThis is not a turnkey solution,u201d he said. Today, many NetWitness customers use the companyu2019s products in more of a forensic role to understand what happened in a breach than as a defensive tool to spot and block breaches, Corman said.  In a letter to customers, NetWitness CEO Amit Yoran saidnthe company hoped to gain from the acquisition through integration withnRSA and EMCu2019s infrastructure technology and EMCu2019s global sales andnservices organizations.  Corman said other firms similar to NetWitness could also go to larger technology and services firms in the months ahead, as they look to convince customers that they are serious about addressing targeted threats.  Other firms that sell security intelligence tools akin to NetWitness say they, also, have seen increased demand in the last year.  u201cThe awareness of potential cyber attacks has grown with the increase innreported breaches and attacks, such as the RSA breach, Stuxnet, Wikileaks..andnwho knows what is next,u201d said TomnTurner, senior vice president of marketing and channels for Q1 Labs. u201cAll of this attention is driving demand, and we arenseeing it reflected in a growing interest for security intelligence solutionsnand pro-active security in general.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bb16cefc42b00294049" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Five Questions About Aaron Barru2019s DEFCON (by Aaron Barr)", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/aaron-barrs-defcon-aaron-barr-081511/75545/", "Date" : "August 16, 2011 , 2:46 am", "Article" : "Editoru2019s note: Finding Aaron Barr at this yearu2019s DEFCON hacker conference in Las Vegas was like a giant game of u201cWhereu2019s Waldo.u201d Given the events of the past year, you can hardly blame him for keeping a low profile. First there wasu00a0the attack on him and his then-employer, HBGary Federal, his decision to part ways with HBGary, his work to rehabilitate his image and turn his personal misfortunes into a u2018teaching momentu2019 for the industry, and then the legal wrangling in recent weeksu00a0that threw cold water on hisu00a0plans to take part in a panel discussion about Anonymous at DEFCON. Barr was courted by numerous news outlets at the show, including the mainstream media. But he preferred, for the most part, to keep his counsel. So when Aaron offered to contribute his thoughts on this yearu2019s DEFCON to Threatpost, we jumped at it. Hereu2019s what he had to say. u00a0  Question 1: OK u2013 How weird was it being at DEFCON?  Being at the conference definitely felt odd. Here was a place where so many people knew this very public story about me.u00a0 I had no idea what to expect. Would I be confronted? Heckled or, possibly, welcomed?u00a0 I figured, going in, there were good odds that I would have some type of confrontation at some point. But it never came. In fact,u00a0 it was a great trip. Like all Blackhat/DEFCON trips, I hung out with friends, met new people, had lots of laughs, talked about the state of our industry, drank too much and didnu2019t sleep enough.u00a0 I had a handful of, u201cHey youu2019re Aaron Barr!u201d encountersu00a0 (typically following an introduction as u201cAaronu201d).u00a0 These included the two nice guys I shared a cab with to the airport.u00a0 One of them admitted he was in the AnonOps IRC channel during some of the initial heated conversations back in February.u00a0 He wouldnu2019t let me pay for my share of the cab ride, saying u201cI got it man you actually seem like a nice guy, plus I want to be able to say I paid for your cabu201d.u00a0 Other than those few occasions, it was I who felt anonymous (though maybe not as Anonymous as some). Question 2: Did Aaron Barr attend the Aaron Barr Panel? As you may know, my original plans were to sit on a DEFCON panel entitled u201cWhoever fights monsters: confronting Aaron Barr, Anonymous, and ourselves.u201d When circumstances prevented that, I determined to attend DEFCON anyway and, if possible, to attend the panel that would be, at least partly, about me. The panel started bright and early Saturday morning u2013 10 AM. (Thatu2019s early in u2018Vegas). I woke that morning and ran through numerous scenarios. I could be recognized during the talk and called out. I could end up being a distraction to the people on stage. The right course of action wasnu2019t clear. But, in the end, I was comforted by the fact that I had spent all day Friday at the conference and had moved about pretty much unrecognized. I thought I was pretty safe. u00a0 That morning, I donned my disguise: a baseball cap, shorts, t-shirt, and a healthy 5 ou2019clock shadow. Not too subtle, I know, but most people only know me by the photo of me in a business suit staring at the camera (the only picture available of me on the net.)u00a0 My disguise didnu2019t make me look like someone else u2013 just different from what everyone was expecting. And, as with many things in security, that ended up being good enough.u00a0 Feeling pretty safe, I went to the show, entered the conference hall and took a spot against the wall in the back. My impressions? u2013 I think the panel did a great job of framing the debate over Anonymous, which is really one about the benefits or necessity of anonymity, the impact of hacktivism and hacktivist groups on the state of security, and the implications of vigilantism and offensive cyber tactics. The discussion about the possibility of u201cbuilding a better Anonymousu201d u2013 one that gave voice and force to the dispossessed, but saved their fire power for problems we could all rally around (such as stopping child pornography) was excellent. Frankly, I wondered afterwards if the talk was not better without me! Thereu2019s no doubt that many of the topics discussed would not have been covered if I was on stage because of the legal restrictions that I faced.u00a0 At the same time, the focus might have been too much on me rather than on larger issues that were, frankly, more important.u00a0 A few people told me afterwards it was the most important talk of the conference, that it needed to happen and will hopefully be the start of a dialogue rather than just a conflict. Selfishly I would have liked to be up there on stage with Josh, Scot and Jericho. I would have loved the opportunity to convey a few misunderstandings about me.  Question 3: Did DEFCON change your thinking about Anonymous? I am, to use a phrase that Richard Thieme popularized at this yearu2019s show, au00a0 u201cworld as greyu201d kind of person. The issues raised by the attacks that were discussed on the panel are not settled law to me u2013 or even that clear cut. These are complex problems that donu2019t lend themselves to quick, reductive solutions. I have always been and still consider myself a liberal, but I am a liberal who has spent a career working in government and defense. I understand the importance of a solid defense and the necessity of a good offense. Some might be surprised to know I helped to lead a protest against Walmart in 2005 from putting up a store in my small town (we lost). I was, likewise, a vocal opponent of the war in Iraq from the beginning. But I also support the ideal of Western information dominance as a means of protecting our freedoms u2013 including the freedom to access information.u00a0 I believe that sometimes circumstances require more aggressive tactics in order to maintain stability. But Iu2019m also aware that such tactics can run dangerously close to the line, and are susceptible to corruption.u00a0 These are not ideological choices for me, but opinions born out of what I see as a necessity.u00a0 I believe one of the main areas of failure in cyber defense is we do not have good enough intelligence on threats.u00a0 Good threat intelligence requires comprehensive real-time collection and analysis on all threats, and in a constantly connected, social media-dominated world, this appears to some as an encroachment by governments or companies on privacy in the name of security.u00a0 In my opinion, well-intentioned efforts run afoul of some civil libertarians and privacy advocates because of the perception of encroachment. But with mediums like social networking Web sites, which enable easy manipulation of identity, it is getting difficult to separate the actual threats from the bystanders. Question 4: Anonymity: good or bad? Key to the Anonymous movement is the concept ofu2026wellu2026anonymity. Its members either physically or digitally masking their identity to protect themselves from harassment and prosecution and to focus the movement on the ideals rather than the people.u00a0 This is not a new concept and is at the center of most of the cyber issues we deal with today a problem often discussed as the u201cattributionu201d problem of cyber threats. Related to activism, anonymity is both critically important and inevitably corrupting. No one can deny the importance of anonymity in places with extreme information control and oppression, such as Syria, China and Iran, to name but a few. In these cases efforts to push complete solutions for real identity are counter-productive to human rights.u00a0 In short: in parts of the world where there is a very real threat to life and liberty as a consequence of sharing opinions and experiences, anonymity is essential. In areas with more personal freedoms and protection the benefits of anonymity is debatable -especially when you consider the ways in which anonymity has provided a means for some to commit crimes, sow chaos, and bully, and harass those with opposing views.  The complexity increases when we consider what is protest behavior vs. criminal or bullying behavior online.u00a0 One thing is certain: anonymity has removed personal accountability within free societies. That lack of accountability has led to a surge in criminal activity and reckless behavior. Combine Anonymity with social media, and you can quickly find yourself in the midst of an online (or IRL) mob comprised of distributed and detached individuals with divergent agendas (if any).u00a0 I think thereu2019s a clear line that can be drawn between online protest movements and efforts to expose important information u2013 but that its an easy line to smudge or just step over. The Wikileaks case is a great example of that. Many people view the siteu2019s publication of the u201cCollateral Murderu201d video as an important and necessary act of civil disobedience and whistle blowing that exposed apparently criminal acts by US troops fighting in Iraq. Wikileaks subsequent release of hundreds of thousands of classified diplomatic cables was another matter entirely, and one in which anonymity, technology and means of massive distribution were used to serve destructive rather than constructive goals.  The need for anonymity for in the latter case is critical to protect whistleblowers or dissidents.u00a0 In the case of the former u2013 online protests u2013 I believe anonymity and the lack of personal accountability is absolutely corrupting what I think are some of the key tenets of lawful protest. These include personal sacrifice and a willingness for individuals to stand up and be associated with a cause or idea with boots on the ground, as it were. u00a0 I donu2019t think a DDOS is equivalent to a digital sit-in. A DDoS is more like a digital sucker punch thrown from a dark alley. Sure, taking part in a DDoS attack is against the law, but many of the civil rights and voting rights protests were technically violations of the (Jim Crow) laws that held sway in the South. Many thousands were arrested for their participation in these civil actions. So Iu2019d say: u201cif your desire to protest for a cause doesnu2019t encompass the possibility that you, personally, might be disadvantaged by doing so, maybe you should rethink your decision to protest at all.u201d Question 5: u2018Building a better Anonymous.u2019 Is that possible? This was one of the key takeaways from the panel discussion. The idea seems to be to take the ideology, which has broader appeal, and wrap it in an organization that is more measured in its attacks, more discriminatory about its targets, and more careful about compromising non-target information, especially on users.u00a0 My opinion is that this would be no small feat.u00a0 I sat in the audience (right beside an unwitting Gregg Housh u2013 BTW) for the Saturday evening session on Anonymous presented by Backtrace security where the dialogue became much more heated, sarcastic, and even combative.u00a0 During this one hour session there was yelling, chanting, singing, even a visit by a notorious Internet mascot. It was an example of the level of disruption and sarcasm Anonymous is willing to stoop to in order to get a laugh, and u2013 not coincidentally- to drown out criticism.u00a0 This behavior is highly hypocritical for an organization whose chief pillar seems to be freedom of speech, opinion, and individuality. u00a0 Anonymous has demonstrated an ability to be a serious activist organization during Operation Egypt and Tunisia. It showed its more capricious, childish side with the u201cRequest a DDOSu201d and u201cTelephone DDOSu201d promotions. It looked like a straight-up criminal organization with its attacks on Law Enforcement and Sony.u00a0 For Anonymous to mature would require severing or alienating part of the collective and dropping the sensationalism that has captured media attention and the publicu2019s fear. Maturing, in other words, would require Anonymous to change what seems to be its essence.u00a0 That doesnu2019t mean that it cannot be done, or shouldnu2019t be done.u00a0 Certainly the world would welcome a less destructive and more focused Anonymous.u00a0 And who among us would be distraught if the serial haters at the Westboro Baptist Church found themselves on the wrong end of Anonymousu2019s LOIC DDoS tool? But, as the group, itself, admits: Anonymous is in it for the Lulz, so such an change would seemu00a0 to run against the grain of the group.Rather than debate whether there could be a u201cbetter Anonymous,u201d maybe we should debate whether we need an Anonymous at all? Or, to ask the question another way: is there a place for hacktivism or digital vigilantism in an increasingly digital world?u00a0 What are the benefits of such groups?u00a0 What are the societal costs? There are no easy answers to these questions. And, in the end, the questions are academic. Regardless of whether Anonymous should exist, it will.u00a0 Regardless of how we feel about Anonymousu2019s style of hacktivism, it will remain as an outlet for individual and collective anger because itu2019su00a0 effective. These attacks do appear to have increased security awareness, but it might not have been the kind of benefit that Anonymous intended.u00a0 Anonymous attacks in concert with Stuxnet and very public attacks on RSA and a variety of other companies has made cyber securityu00a0 headline news.u00a0 Board rooms now regularly discuss corporate vulnerabilities and mitigation strategies.u00a0 In turn, they are spending more on security as a result of these threats. That is a good thing right?u00a0 Maybe. But I find it ironic that the white hats Anonymous wants to punish seem to be the ones benefiting the most.u00a0 In the end does this make us more secure?u00a0 I donu2019t believe so.u00a0 Security is a complex issue that goes beyond properly configured web servers, patch updates, and strong passwords.u00a0 The problems we face are not going to be fixed by a quick influx of cash or focus of attention. They require fundamental changes in our use of technology within business operations and personal use.u00a0 Right now the extra money appears to mostly be spent on assessments, hardening, detection, and incident response.u00a0 Spending in these areas is important, but ultimately these measures are Band -Aids applied to the fundamental weaknesses in IT groups, which are under pressure to implement new technologies that increase productivity and drive down costs.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bb66cefc42b00294050" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "On Stuxnet, the ASP.NET Vulnerability and the Return of Unofficial Patches", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stuxnet-aspnet-vulnerability-and-return-unofficial-patches-091710/74487/", "Date" : "September 17, 2010 , 7:32 pm", "Article" : "Threatpost editors Dennis Fisher and Paul Roberts talk aboutu00a0the revelation that Stuxnet included four previously unknown flaws, the paddingu00a0oracle attack on ASP.NET Web apps and the return of unofficial patches for zerou00a0days.  Subscribe to the News Wrap podcast on  *Podcast audio courtesy of The New Radio " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bb86cefc42b00294056" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Week in Review: Web Insecurity and Fixes for Stuxnet", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/week-review-web-insecurity-and-fixes-stuxnet-091710/74481/", "Date" : "September 17, 2010 , 3:02 pm", "Article" : "Web insecurity was in the news this week, with a major flaw in the security of ASP.NET and some sobering statistics on Web site infections. When your bank account gets hacked u2013 is it your fault? And, with a patch out for one of four (!) zero day exploits used by Stuxnet, security experts wonder if its the most sophisticated malwareu2026ever!?u00a0  The Web is the worldu2019s operating system -the last five years have made that much clear. But if the news this week is any indication, that promise may be a mixed blessing. Indeed, the headlines this week were filled with dire warnings about the frailty of Web security.  The week began with news of a serious vulnerability that affects millions of Web applications. Researchers speaking at the ekoparty hacking conference in Buenos Airesu00a0will demonstrate a critical vulnerability in Microsoftu2019s ubiquitous ASP.NET technology. Using a tool called the Padding Oracle Exploit Tool researchers Juliano Rizzo and Thai Duong can reportedly decrypt sniffed ASP.NET cookies, which could contain sensitive data like bank balances, Social Security Numbers or cryptographic keys used to secure transactions. u00a0Online banking and e-commerce stand to be the main targets for this exploit, as much of it is ran on the ASP.NET framework, the researchers warned. The ASP.NET bug spells trouble for banking and e-commerce Web sites, but according to Web anti malware firm Dasient, rank and file Web sites are faring even worse. Dasient released data that claimed that more than one million web sites were serving up malware in the second quarter of 2010 alone. The report cited .com and .cn (China-based) domains and third party widgets and ad networks as the main culprits. Tuesday brought Microsoftu2019s monthly patch release u2013 a fix for 11 vulnerabilities in a wide range of products. They included a high profile fix for a previously unknown security hole used by the Stuxnet worm. By patching Windows Print Spooler, the company disabled a hole that allowed attackers to spread the worm through networks via local printers.u00a0Kaspersky Lab researchers previously identified the hole as one of four the worm has been utilizing. The Stuxnet fix, MS10-061, was one of 11 vulnerabilities addressed by Microsoftu2019s monthly Patch Tuesday extravaganza. Other software patched included Microsoft Outlook, IIS and Microsoft Office. The revelations about Stuxnetu2019s use of zero days had some researchers wondering whether the complicated worm, discovered in July, might be the most sophisticated malware ever. As Threatpost.com has reported, Stuxnet and is able to spy on and reprogram different industrial systems. Reports this week suggest that as many as 14 industrial control systems may have been infected by the Stuxnet worm. Finally, it was another eventful week for the folks at Adobe.u00a0Followingnlast weeku2019s news of an unpatched hole in Reader, the companyu2019s Flash productntook center stage on Monday. Accordingnto an advisory issued by Adobe, a zero-day flaw in the software allowsnattackers to take control of remote systems. Since they share the same piece ofnsoftware, the vulnerability affects Reader and Acrobat as well.  Whileu00a0Adobe promised a fix by early October, and Microsoftu00a0assured customers that itsu00a0Enhanced Mitigation EnvironmentnToolkit 2.0 can help prevent attacks from last weeku2019s Reader flaw,u00a0software development company RamzAfzar providednan independent fix for the Reader flaw in an unofficial patch.u00a0Inna statement Thursday, Adobe warned against using that patch and pointed out there is always risks whenninstalling software from unsanctioned sources.u00a0 Did any articles pique your interest? Nick Selbyu2019s piece on whou2019s to blame for customer/banking breaches generated a good amount of discussion, as did Paul Roberts piece taking a hard look at HTML5 and how security may have to adapt to feed the emerging new technology.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bbd6cefc42b00294061" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "zScaler: Resurgent Lethic using Stuxnet Tricks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/zscaler-resurgent-lethic-using-stuxnet-tricks-111010/74663/", "Date" : "November 10, 2010 , 10:26 pm", "Article" : "Newly detected versions of the Lethic botnet are digitally signed using stolen credentials similar to those used by the Stuxnet worm, according to a blog post from Web security firm zScaler.u00a0 In a blog post Wednesday, zScaler Senior Security Researcher Mike Geide said the company had intercepted new Lethic variants that were signed using legitimate digital signatures belonging to Taiwanese semiconductor firm Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Thatu2019s one of two firms whose credentials were used to help the Stuxnet worm fool detection systems and install itself on target systems.  u00a0 ,u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bbe6cefc42b00294063" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Cisco: More Threats To Apple, Mobile Devices In 2011", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cisco-more-threats-apple-mobile-devices-2011-012011/74857/", "Date" : "January 20, 2011 , 5:43 am", "Article" : "Data suggests that 2010 was a year of u201cmore of the sameu201d when it comes to computer threats, but 2011 likely wonu2019t be, at least according to networking giant Cisco Systems, which released its Annual Security Report on Wednesday.  Ciscou2019s annual report on the state of security reiterated findings from some of the companyu2019s earlier, quarterly reports, finding that cyber criminals stuck to tried and true methods adopted in recent years, including Web based exploits, social engineering attacks and attacks targeted at common applications. But the company said that 2011 may well be a turning point in the computer security world, as trends like mobility provide new opportunities for cyber criminals. Cisco said 2010 was a year marked by both progress in the fight against cyber criminal organizations and online crime, and worrisome new trends. The company noted the coordinated take-down of spam-spewing botnets like Pushdo and Waldec, but also the appearance of Stuxnet, a sophisticated worm created to target and disable industrial control systems.  Looking at attacks, Ciscou2019s report, which culls security data from the companyu2019s global security deployment and professional services groups, noted an increase in the use of Java exploits and continued interest in exploits for known and unknown (or zero-day) holes in common applications like Adobeu2019s PDF (Portable Document Format).  The past year also brought evidence that the worlds of cybercrime and state sponsored espionage may be merging. In December, for example, a holiday greeting card purporting to come from the White House and sent to government and Pentagon employees was found to contain the Zeus crimeware and modified to look for and siphon PDF, Word, Excel and other document types.  u201cZeus is typically involved in data theft u2013 low hanging fruit like credit card numbers,u201d said Mary Landesman, a senior security researcher at Cisco. u201d In this case, it seems to be tailored to intellectual property theft and espionage.u201d  Looking forward to 2011, Cisco anticipates that existing cyber criminal operations behind malware like the Zeus crimeware will continue to diversify u2013 adding features and investing in new techniques for avoiding detection. But the big trend may be the diversification of cybercrime beyond the domain of Windows and applications running on the Windows platform. Products from Apple Corp. as well as mobile devices such as the Android and iPhone smart phones, increasingly, hold the kind of sensitive data that criminals are interested in.  Mobile phones offer a host of new opportunities for cyber criminals, including loosely monitored application ecosystems that can be tricked into offering users spyware or crimeware, small screens that make it easy to conceal malicious activity and a population of users not yet attuned to issues like security or data privacy in the context of mobile phones, Landesman said.  The continued global recession u2013 particularly felt in North America and Europe u2013 will also contribute to cyber crime trends in 2011, Landesman said. Cisco said it expects to see growth in a wide spectrum of illegal activity. That includes money mules u2013 ordinary citizens who act as the last leg in complex, global scams, shipping fenced goods overseas or helping to wire illicit funds to offshore accounts. White collar crimes such as intellectual property theft and cyber espionage are also likely to increase as employees -stretched for funds or discontented with their employers u2013 decide to sell information or intellectual property assets on the black market.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bc16cefc42b00294067" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Expert: Stuxnet Just Latest in U.S. Hacks of Covert Nuke Programs", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/expert-stuxnet-just-latest-us-hacks-covert-nuke-programs-011911/74859/", "Date" : "January 19, 2011 , 7:32 pm", "Article" : "CORRECTION:u00a0This article originally included the incorrect name for an associate of u00a0A.Q. Khan. The correct name of the associate is u201cFriedrich Tinner,u201d a Swiss nuclear engineer. The name has been corrected in the article. The author of a new book on the evolution of the worldu2019s first nuclear black market says that Stuxnet is just the latest in a long string of efforts by the U.S. and its allies to slow or stop the creation of nuclear programs by rogue nations.  Stuxnet, the worldu2019s most famous industrial malware has spurred questions and controversy. Who created it? what was its purpose? And did it work? But a new book out by journalists Catherine Collins and Douglas Frantz claims that Stuxnet was just the latest in a string of covert efforts by the U.S. and its allies to sabotage the nuclear programs of rogue nations, and may have been necessary because of the failure of earlier sabotage attempts. Their book, u2018Fallout: The True Story of the CIAu2019s Secret War on Nuclear Traffickingu201d examines the U.S.u2019s investigation of A.Q. Khan, the father of Pakistanu2019s nuclear weapons program and of an extensive black market in nuclear materials. Among the pages of this fascinating account of Khanu2019s rise and the CIAu2019s decades-long surveillance of his secretive network are some interesting tidbits that shed light on the possible origins of the Stuxnet worm. Khanu2019s network was a critical supplier of nuclear equipment to the regimes in North Korea, Libya and Iran that wanted to build a nuclear weapons programs out of sight of international watch dogs and regulators. Among other things, Khan supplied the Iranian leadership with centrifuges used to enrich uranium that could be used to build a nuclear weapon. Those same centrifuges, we now known, were the primary target of the Stuxnet worm, which is believed to have disabled a good part of Iranu2019s nuclear enrichment operation and set the countryu2019s progress towards a bomb back by years. In an interview for the National Public Radio program Fresh Air, Frantz u2013 a former managing editor of the Los Angeles Times and now chief investigator for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee u2013 said that the U.S. and its allies had been intercepting, analyzing and tampering with critical technologies used by nations like Libya and Iran for years. According to Frantz, the CIA, working with scientists and engineers at the Department of Energy, started a program to buy, reverse engineer and tamper with critical technology needed to refine and enrich uranium, including vacuum pumps, electric regulators and critical centrifuge components. According to Frantz, in the case of the vacuum pumps, the CIA purchased the pumps from a German manufacturer and had them sent to Los Alamos where a U.S. Scientist, dubbed u201cThe Mad Scientistu201d by the CIA reverse engineered the devices and reprogrammed them to explode at a predefined pressure. Those altered parts were then passed on to Iran and Libya. The CIA did the same with electric regulators, manufactured in Turkey, that were passed on to Iran and Libya. Finally, the CIA asked a Khan associate, Friedrich Tinner, to manufacture minute flaws into centrifuge parts so that they wouldnu2019t operate properly in production. Of course, that program had some consequences. While Frantz acknowledges that the altered parts did hamper the progress of those programs, in the case of Iran, he says that engineers were able to work around the CIAu2019s tampering and continue to use the critical components that U.S. had allowed to be shipped u2013 components that the U.S. would otherwise have gone to great lengths to prevent Iran from acquiring. According to Frantz, the creation of the Stuxnet worm became necessary because Iran had overcome earlier efforts at sabotaging the centrifuges and was making steady progress toward assembling the fuel necessary to make a bomb. Frantzu2019s account of the CIAu2019s efforts to derail budding nuclear programs in Libya and Iran over the last two decades dovetails with recent disclosures about the origins of the Stuxnet worm that suggest that critical intelligence that enabled the worm to manipulate programmable logic controllers (PLCs) used by Iran had come from the U.S.u00a0 Frantzu2019s discussion of the sabotage operation and his reference to the motivation to create Stuxnet comes at around the 17:00 minute mark in the interview. Even with the recent revelations, debate on Stuxnet continues. In a presentation at the Black Hat Conference in Washington D.C., security consultant Tom Parker said that an analysis of the Stuxnet codes suggests the wormu2019s code was not as sophisticated as the public had been led to believe, and that the final Stuxnet worm may be an amalgam of work done by two disparate groups of programmers -one highly sophisticated, and one less so.u00a0u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bc56cefc42b00294071" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Siemens Finds Stuxnet Worm in 14 Plants", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/siemens-finds-stuxnet-worm-14-plants-091510/74474/", "Date" : "September 15, 2010 , 4:41 pm", "Article" : "A sophisticated worm designed to steal industrial secrets and disruptnoperations has infected at least 14 plants, according to Siemens. Read the full article. [IDG News Service] " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bc96cefc42b00294075" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet Authors Made Several Basic Errors", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stuxnet-authors-made-several-basic-errors-011811/74856/", "Date" : "January 18, 2011 , 6:53 pm", "Article" : "ARLINGTON, VAu2013There is a growing sentiment among security researchers that the programmers behind the Stuxnet attack may not have been the super-elite cadre of developers that theyu2019ve been mythologized to be in the media. In fact, some experts say that Stuxnet could well have been far more effective and difficult to detect had the attackers not made a few elementary mistakes. In a talk at the Black Hat DC conference here Tuesday, Tom Parker, a security consultant, presented a compelling case that Stuxnet may be the product of a collaboration between two disparate groups, perhaps a talented group of programmers that produced most of the code and exploits and a less sophisticated group that may have adapted the tool for its eventual use. Parker analyzed the code in Stuxnet and looked at both the quality of the code itself as well as how well it did what it was designed to do, and found several indications that the code itself is not very well done, but was still highly effective on some levels.n nParker wrote a tool that analyzed similarities between the Stuxnet code and the code of some other well-known worms and applications and found that the code was fairly low quality. However, he also said that there was very little chance that one person could have put the entire attack together alone. u201cThere are a lot of skills needed to write Stuxnet,u201d he said. u201cWhoever did this needed to know WinCC programming, Step 7, they needed platform process knowledge, the ability to reverse engineer a number of file formats, kernel rootkit development and exploit development. Thatu2019s a broad set of skills. Does anyone here think they could do all of that?u201d That broad spectrum of abilities is what has led many analysts to conclude that Stuxnet could only be the work of a well-funded, highly skilled group such as an intelligence agency or other government group. However, Parker pointed out that there were a number of mistakes in the attack that one wouldnu2019t expect to find if it was launched by such an elite group. For example, the command-and-control mechanism is poorly done and sends its traffic in the clear and the worm ended up propagating on the Internet, which was likely not the intent. u201cThis was probably not a western state. There were too many mistakes made. Thereu2019s a lot that went wrong,u201d he said. u2018Thereu2019s too much technical inconsistency. But, the bugs were unlikely to fail. They were all logic flaws with high reliability.u201d Parker said that Stuxnet may have been developed originally on contract and then once it was handed off to the end user, that group adapted it by adding the C&C infrastructure and perhaps one of the exploits, as well. The mistakes werenu2019t limited to the operational aspects of Stuxnet, either. Nate Lawson, a cryptographer and expert on the security of embedded systems, said in a blog post Monday that the Stuxnet authors were very naive in the methods they used to cloak the payload and target of the malware. Lawson said that the Stuxnet authors ignored a number of well-known techniques that could have been much more effective at hiding the wormu2019s intentions. u201cRather than being proud of its stealth and targeting, the authors should be embarrassed at their amateur approach to hiding the payload. I really hope it wasnu2019t written by the USA because Iu2019d like to think our elite cyberweapon developers at least know what Bulgarian teenagers did back in the early 90u2032s,u201d Lawson said. u201cFirst, there appears to be no special obfuscation. Sure, there are your standard routines for hiding from AV tools, XOR masking, and installing a rootkit. But Stuxnet does no better at this than any other malware discovered last year. It does not use virtual machine-based obfuscation, novel techniques for anti-debugging, or anything else to make it different from the hundreds of malware samples found every day.u201d Lawson concludes that whoever wrote Stuxnet likely was constrained by time and didnu2019t think there was enough of a return to justify the investment of more time in advanced cloaking techniques. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bcd6cefc42b0029407a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "U.S. Needs Cybersecurity Skunk Works, Expert Says", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/us-needs-cybersecurity-skunk-works-expert-says-011811/74855/", "Date" : "January 18, 2011 , 4:00 pm", "Article" : "ARLINGTON, VAu2013In order to address the fundamental questions surrounding the concept of cyberwar and what it might mean for both the government and the enterprise, the United States should develop a skunk works-type think tank comprising highly skilled private-sector security experts as well as operational and policy experts from the government, a former deputy Secretary of Defense said. Franklin Kramer, who served in the Clinton administration, said Tuesday that because the concept of using computers as weapons is still so new, policy makers and security experts donu2019t even know which questions to ask, let alone what the correct answers are. As a result, the public and private discourse both in Washington and in other countries has been focusing on the sensational elementsu2013cyberwar, cyber-espionage, anything with cyber as a prefixu2013rather than the questions of when and how such tactics might be deployed and what that would mean for the people on both sides. u201cWeu2019ve only really begun to think about this. Itu2019s new,u201d Kramer said in his keynote speech at the Black Hat DC conference here. u201cThereu2019s no clarity on the problems to solve or the solutions. We need to bring policymakers like me and techies like you together in a wonk-geek coalition to enlarge the problem spaces that we each work on.u201d To that end, Kramer proposed the establishment of a so-called skunk works, a loosely organized group ofu00a0 experts in both the technological and geopolitical aspects of the problem who would collaborate on figuring out how to address the various technical and policy issues createdu00a0 by advent of state-sponsored cyber attacks. A big part of the problem set that this group would need to address, Kramer said, involve weaknesses in private networks and systems such as the power grid. The electrical utilities, along with systems running the financial infrastructure, for example, are considered prime targets for both state-sponsored attacks and individual attackers. u201cOur man-made systems have always been fragile. We could have a power system with significant attacks against it, but the system as a whole is good enough,u201d he said. u201cGood enough is not a bad goal. If you can keep a massive attack contained to the level of a brown out, thatu2019s good enough. Weu2019re all counting on [the grid] and it certainly seems open to attack. Stuxnet showed the vulnerability of the grid mechanisms. It seems the offense is pretty well ahead of the defense. Itu2019s fair to say that thereu2019s a concern that the grid is at high risk. We donu2019t have the infrastructure thatu2019s designed to defend against a massive attack by a determined adversary. u201c Kramer used Stuxnet and other recent attacks such asu00a0 the Aurora operation against Google and others and the ZeuS malware as examples of incidents that seem to cross the very fuzzy line separating normal online crime from state-directed or sponsored attacks. Such attacks, he said, make it quite difficult for experts to determine how to proceed with a response, both in terms of a technical response and a political one.  u201cThe cyber domain is not easily controlled or just like everything else weu2019ve had. Thereu2019s an ease of entry and that means we could see non-state actors enter,u201d he said. u201cCyber can be easily used and that might mean itu2019s used to easily and too quickly and contained war might not be possible. And the ease of entry and lack of defense means that weu2019re less likely to dominate. The U.S. has become used to dominating the battlespace. Itu2019s uncertain whether we can in the cyber area and that changes the calculus.u201d The think tank proposal that Kramer talked about is not an entirely novel one. Such partnerships between government agencies and private-sector experts or groups have been attempted any number of times in the last decade, with little to show in the way of concrete results. However, most of those efforts have been driven by agencies such as the Department of Homeland Security and tend to be highly structured.  Krameru2019s plan relies on a more informal structure in which participants collaborate on various specific problems, rather than on data sharing or smiliar efforts.  u201cIt would have the advantage of significant brain power from both the private sector and policy insights from the government,u201d Kramer said. u201cItu2019s too difficult to do wholly inside the government or outside of it.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bd46cefc42b00294084" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Ralph Langner on Cracking Stuxnet", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ralph-langner-cracking-stuxnet-033011/75084/", "Date" : "March 30, 2011 , 2:41 pm", "Article" : "  In his talk at the TED2011 Conference, Ralph Langner, a control systems security expert, discusses the work he and his team did to tear apart the Stuxnet worm and work out exactly what it does and what itu2019s target and ultimate purpose were. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bd46cefc42b00294085" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Exposing SCADA Systems With Shodan", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/exposing-scada-systems-shodan-110910/74644/", "Date" : "November 9, 2010 , 2:11 pm", "Article" : " Editoru2019s Note: The U.S.u2019s Industrial Control System Computer Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT) recently issued a warning to its members about the ability of attackers to discover ICS systems using a simple search on Shodan, a public search engine that is used to locate systems accessible from the public Internet. In this column, Shodanu2019s creator, John Matherly, writes that the ICS-CERT warning just scratches the surface of SCADA and ICS System insecurity, and provides suggestions for shielding these systems from the attentions of search engines, curious netizens or would-be attackers.u00a0 The recent ICS-CERTu00a0alert on the ability to find Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systemsu00a0using Shodan has received a lot of attention, mostly by people who wereu00a0surprised to hear about the apparent lack of security on systems that run much of our nationu2019s critical infrastructure. For many securityu00a0experts, though, these security issues were well known and long-standing u2013 the proverbial elephant in the living room. Now it seemsu00a0Shodan, a search engine that I created, has brought the security issues plaguing SCADA and ICS systems into the daylight by making it possible to discover Internet facing ICS systems with a simple Web search. For people unfamiliaru00a0with Shodan (http://www.shodanhq.com),u00a0itu2019s a web service that scans the entire Internet for specific services (HTTP,u00a0HTTPS, Telnet, SMTP, SSH and FTP). If it finds an IP that responds to anu00a0initial search, it proceeds to grab a banner that contains information aboutu00a0the service. Finally, the IP gets correlated with other sources of data, suchu00a0as geographic location, to complete the picture. To cloak a computer fromu00a0Shodan, systems should simply refrain from responding to either the first crawl or subsequent connectionu00a0attempts by configuring their firewall to block unknown sources from connecting. I should note that this is not the same as trying to hide the computer fromu00a0search engine crawling by configuring a robots.txt file to tell Google, Yahoo, Bing, etc. to leave you alone. That might be an instinctual first step for IT staff, but would only mask and delay the real problem. u00a0The truth is that SCADA and industrial control systems should not have a public IP address. If the security of a service depends on that service remaining hidden (a.k.a. u201csecurity through obscurity,u201d), then thatu2019s a problem. I launched Shodan nearly a year ago, and right off the bat people started finding systems thatu00a0are discussed in the ICS alert. It ranged from a cyclotron at the Lawrenceu00a0Berkeley National Laboratories to infrastructure-level network switches and water treatment facilities.u00a0Even now, a quick search for openly accessible Cisco switches returns almost 7,000 results. The sad truth is that Shodan is just scratching theu00a0surface of unprotected or misconfigured SCADA devices.u00a0Since it mostly looksu00a0for computers running a web server, it misses any device that relies on au00a0custom daemon operating on a different port. That doesnu2019t mean that such systems are undiscoverable. It just means that Shodan isnu2019t looking for them. u00a0And, of course, the search engine merely finds systems. It doesnu2019t exposeu00a0the myriad of bad security practices that seem to be rampant amongst vendorsu00a0and operators. The good news is that a few, simple securityu00a0precautions would prevent the problems mentioned in the ICS alert:u00a0multipleu00a0layers of defense are important and expected of an organization containingu00a0sensitive equipment or information. Such measures include the use of strongu00a0passwords, removing default user accounts, setting up a VPN for remote access,u00a0properly configuring the firewall and having emergency response procedures inu00a0place, constantly testing network security and monitoring for file systemu00a0changes.u00a0Operators should use Shodan to check whether theiru00a0systems have been indexed. Finally, thereu2019s an API for Shodanu00a0that lets system administratorsu00a0periodically check whether any of their machines are publicly accessible.u00a0The bad news is that getting ICS vendors and their customers to understand and implement these common-sense measures is an uphill battle.u00a0A few weeks ago at the Toorcon conference, security researcher Jeremy Brown gave au00a0talk on exploiting SCADA systems that showed just how little some vendors care about security. Brown related his experience trying to convey information about a serious, remotely exploitable hole in a common SCADA platform to the vendor responsible for the software. Brown told the audience about how he struggled to explain theu00a0concept and implications of remotely exploitable vulnerabilities to the vendoru2019s security contact, only to beu00a0told to u201cstop wasting their time.u201d It wasnu2019t until Brown went public with his findings and aroused the interest of the Industrial Control Systems Computer Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT) that a vendor patch was issued. Hopefully the Stuxnet incident as well as recent ICS alerts will convinceu00a0vendors and operators alike to allocate more resources to security and make itu00a0a central component of their infrastructure. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bd66cefc42b00294088" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New York Times: Stuxnet A Joint US-Israeli Operation", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-york-times-stuxnet-joint-us-israeli-operation-011611/74851/", "Date" : "January 16, 2011 , 6:55 pm", "Article" : "Details of the Stuxnet wormu2019s origins and functioning have been seeping into the media, tidbit by intriguing tidbit, since last Summer, when news of the worm went mainstream. But a new exclusive from the New York Times breaks the Stuxnet story wide open, confirming oft-cited theories that it was a state-sponsored attack and pointing the finger at both the U.S. and Israel as the creators of the worm.  The story, in Sundayu2019s New York Times, cites Obama administration sources, as well as experts including Ralph Langner, saying that Stuxnet was created specifically to disable Iranu2019s uranium enrichment facility at Nantaz u2013 a mission that the worm apparently carried out with aplomb.  Much has been written about Stuxnet in the last six months, with researchers settling on centrifuges used for uranium enrichment fairly early in the analysis of the worm. connections to Israeli intelligence have also come out of analysis of the worm by Symantec and others.  But the Times article goes well beyond those reports, retracing a complex U.S. Israeli joint operation, that also included cooperation from Germany and Great Britain, as well as knowing or unknowing cooperation by Siemens, the firm that made the programmable logic controllers (PLCs) targeted by Stuxnet. U.S. intelligence and scientists helped analyze the PLCs for vulnerabilities, part of a larger project to research vulnerabilities in commonly used industrial components. Israeli intelligence tested aspects of the worm using centrifuges identical to Iranu2019s at Israels Dimona complex prior to deploying it u2013 making the wormu2019s success a foregone conclusion, the article claims. In the end, Stuxnet may have knocked Iranu2019s progress towards a nuclear weapon off by five years or more u2013 part of a program to u201crun the clocku201d on Iran. Thatu2019s more than Israeli military estimates for the time that they would earn by bombing the Nantaz facility u2013 an act that may have ignited a regional war.  However, experts said that the release of Stuxnet was an act akin to crossing the Rubicon u2013 opening the door to similar, state sponsored attacks aimed at critical infrastructure. The U.S., just like Iran, is vulnerable to such attacks and could find itself targeted, the article notes.u00a0  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bd96cefc42b0029408c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "AutoRun Infections Plummet Following Upgrade", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/autorun-infections-plummet-following-upgrade-061511/75336/", "Date" : "June 15, 2011 , 4:00 pm", "Article" : "A mid-February AutoRun update has had a dramatic effect on malware infection rates on the XP and Vista platforms, reducing infection rates using the AutoRun feature by as much as 68% across Windows platforms, according to Microsoft. Infections via the AutoRun feature in systems running Windows XP Service Pack 1 fell by 62% . Systems running Vista Service Pack 1 saw a 68% decrease, and Vista Service Pack 2 saw an 82% decrease, Microsoft said. XP Service Pack 2 and Windows 7 saw little change as the first is no longer supported and the second had received a similar update at an earlier date. AutoRun is a Windows feature that automates certain actions when external media, such as CDs, DVDs or removable drives are inserted into Windows systems. Specific families of malware have taken advantage of the feature and used it to spread between Windows systems, typically on removable USB drives. In June, 2010, mobile phone maker Samsung acknowledged that a batch of its S8500 Wave mobile phones, sold in Germany, were infected with an AutoRun virus, Win32/Heur, which was pre-loaded on a 1GB microSD memory card that shipped with the phones. That virus would spread to Windows PCs when the SD card or the phone was attached to them. The Conficker virus and the Stuxnet worm also, leveraged AutoRun to spread between Windows systems.  Microsoft has been slowly rolling out changes to the feature for years. Windows 7u2019s AutoPlay feature eliminated features of AutoRun abused by malicious programs. The company later back ported AutoRun to earlier Windows platforms. In February, Microsoft issued a fix for its Windows AutoRun that would disable it on Windows systems.  The latest data from Microsoft measures decreasesn in AutoRun infections and is based on data from Microsoftu2019s Malicious Software Removal Tool. Such infections refer to a u2018familyu2019 of virusesnrelated in that Microsoft detects AutoRun propagation behaviors in them.  The Seattle software giant claims that the infection rates on affected systems started dropping immediately after the upgrade was deployed. They expected this. Microsoft also saw a decrease in rates of infections on adjacent systems running the companyu2019s Forefront Client Security, Forefront Endpoint Security, and Microsoft Security Essentials. Of course, AutoRun is often just one of many options for propagating used by malware. Microsoftu2019s Holly Stewart noted that, even with AutoRun disabled, Trojans can use any number of infection vectors including downloaders, droppers, and social engineering techniques.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bda6cefc42b0029408f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet Fallout: Microsoft Patches Critical Print Spooler Hole", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stuxnet-fallout-microsoft-patches-critical-print-spooler-hole-091310/74465/", "Date" : "September 14, 2010 , 3:02 am", "Article" : "Microsoft patched a zero day vulnerability in Windows Print Spooler that was used by Stuxnet and says that cross vendor cooperation may be the silver lining to the Stuxnet attack.  Microsoft on Tuesday announced a software update to close a critical hole in a common service used by WIndows XP systems to share local printers. Experts say the hole, which was discovered by researchers at Kaspersky Lab, was one of four previously unknown attacks used in the recent Stuxnet outbreak.u00a0 The Redmond, Wash., software maker announced the security fix as part of its monthly Patch Tuesday update. Microsoftu00a0announced fixes for 13 vulnerabilities affecting Windows, Microsoft Office and the Internet Information Services (IIS) products. One of those patches, MS10-061 covers a Print Spooler Service Impersonation Vulnerability that, if left un-patched, could allow an attacker to spread on computer networks through local printers shared from infected machines, said Maarten Van Horenbeeck, Senior Program Manager at Microsoftu2019s Security Response Center (MSRC).u00a0 In a blog post, Kaspersky Lab researcher Alexander Gostev said the Print Spooler hole was one of four previously unknown, or u201czero dayu201d holes that Stuxnet used. (Editoru2019s Note: Threatpost.com is an online security publication of Kaspersky Lab.)u00a0 u00a0 u201cThis makes Stuxnet truly unique: it is the first threat we have encountered that contains this many surprises in a single package,u201d Gostev wrote.u00a0 Kaspersky Lab is part of Microsoftu2019s Active Protection Program (MAPP). The company shared information about the vulnerability with Microsoft as soon as it was identified. The same hole was subsequently discovered by researchers at Symantec Corp, as well. Microsoft waited for those separate analyses to be completed before releasing its own bulletin on the print spooler service hole, MS10-061. u201cKaspersky responsibly disclosed this one to Microsoft after researching the malware thoroughly, and worked with Microsoft to identify and report others,u201d said Kurt Baumgartner, a senior security researcher at Kaspersky Lab. Microsoft said details on the Print Spooler hole came to light in the wake of the worm outbreak, as researchers across the AV industry took the malware apart to discover how it compromised systems and spread. u00a0 u201cWe were all trying to figure out how Stuxnet elevated its privileges on compromised systems. Kaspersky was the first to identify the print spooler service as the source of one of the privilege escalations vulnerabilities,u201d said u00a0Van Horenbeeck.u00a0 The worm, which was designed tou00a0steal data stored on systems running Siemensu2019 Simatic WinCC SCADAu00a0software, also distributed malicious binaries that were signed using legitimate certificates stolen from Realtek Semiconductor. VeriSign subsequently revoked those signing certificates. Though Microsoft has rated the print spooler service vulnerability critical on Windows XP systems, it is unlikely to be used outside of Stuxnet attacks or similar compromises, Van Horenbeeck said, noting thatu00a0it requires attackers to first compromise a machine and then share a printer from that system. u00a0 u201cItu2019s not a common scenario and we have no evidence that the vulnerability was exploited outside of Stuxnet,u201d he said. Microsoft was quick to cite the MAPP program as a contributor to the success.u00a0Cooperation between vendors as part of MAPP helped to accelerate response, Microsoft said.u00a0 The cross- industry partnership has gained adherents. Adobe, in July, announced that it would join MAPP and give members a head start on vulnerabilities in its own products. But Microsoft ruled out cash payments for information on vulnerabilities u2013 at least for now u2013 citing the success of its cooperative work with other vendors and a desire to do whatu2019s u201cgood for customers.u201d Gostev will present technical details on the vulnerability at the Virus Bulletin conference in Vancouver at the end of the month. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bda6cefc42b00294090" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Week in Review: Mobile Madness, Firesheep Speaks Up, Myanmar Knocked Offline", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/week-review-mobile-madness-firesheep-speaks-myanmar-knocked-offline-110510/74647/", "Date" : "November 5, 2010 , 7:33 pm", "Article" : "The specter of politically motivated cyber attacks reared its head again this week, while closer to home, the names of two software giants: Google and Adobe were all over the headlines when it came to security this week, as several bugs were foundu2026and fixed in the companies products. Readnon for the full week in review. As the new month began, reports surfaced on yet another case of what might be considered cyber warfare or politically motivated cyber attacks. This time, it was the repressive, authoritarian nation of Myanmar that found itself cut off from the Internet by a massive denial of service attack on the countryu2019s u00a0Ministry of Post and Telecommunication (or PTT), the main conduit for Internet traffic in and out of the authoritarian nation. Arbor Networks, citing its own data and local reports, said that the attacks may have begun as early as October 25, with Internet access disrupted for both government agencies and private sector firms, with major disruptions to Myanmaru2019s important tourism industry.  Closer to home, search giant Google announced fixes for 10 vulnerabilities in its Chrome browser. Version 7.0.517.44 was released, along with $7,500 in payments to researchers as part of their previously mentioned bounty program.u00a0and saidu00a0theyu2019d be extending their bug bounty program to web propertiesnlike YouTube and Blogger. The search giant wasnalready awarding between $500 and $1337 for flaws found in Chromium butnflaws found in its properties will now be worth between $500 and $3133.7,ndepending on their significance. Holes in Android, Googleu2019s mobile operating system, are not included innthis program u2013 though this weeku2019s news might prompt Google to reconsider that policy.u00a0Application code testing firm Coverity said this week theyu2019d found a whopping 359ndefects in source code for HTCu2019s version of Android for the Droid Incredible phone. Eighty eight of those holes were identified as high risk.u00a0 The security of mobile applications hit the headlines, too, after the Wall Street Journal picked up onu00a0Chicagonfirm ViaForensics discoveryu00a0of serious security flawsu00a0in thenPaypal application for iPhone, and from mobile banking applications from Wells Fargo and Bank of America. eBay, which partners with the payment companynreleased a patch to mitigate these problems on Thursday.u00a0 It was also a week that saw prominent vendors scrambling to plug holes in common platforms u00a0in the face of active, zero-day attacks. Microsoft rushed out a patch to the Internet Explorer Web browseru00a0on Wednesday, after the discovery of a previously unknown hole that was being exploited. Currentlynthe bug affects IE 6, 7 and 8 and is reportedly being used in some drive-byndownload attacks. While patching details were scant when announced, the companynsaid they hadnu2019t ruled out an out-of-band fix.u00a0n Adobenissued an emergency patch of their own on Thursday, fixing the critical bugnthat was exposed last week. The problem, which could be found on Androidnand Reader on Windows and Mac, was schedulednto be fixed next week, Nov. 9.u00a0  Following up on one of last weeku2019s bigger stories, one ofnthe developers behind Firesheep, the Firefox plug-in that allows you to spy onnyour peers, spoke up. EricnButler, who created Firesheep alongside Ian Gallagher, claimed the plug-in cannhelp as much as hurt users. u201cLikenany tool, Firesheep can be used for many things. In addition to raisingnawareness, it has already proven very useful for people who want to test theirnown security as well as the security of their (consenting) friends,u201dnButler said via blog post Wednesday. In this weeku2019s Stuxnetnnews, ICS-CERT, a division of US-CERT pointednout web search engine Shodan can easily detect companies running Supervisory Controlnand Data Acquisition software.supporters and detractors.  SCADA, the kind of software exploited by thenStuxnet worm has come under fire as of late but still has its share of  Whatu2019d you find interesting this week? We learned how somenattackers are filteringntheir attacks through honeypots to gain information on those who accessnthem. Additionally, RoguenAV attacks were ramped up this week as users searching for informationnabout the weeku2019s midterm elections were greeted with suspicious-looking links. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bdb6cefc42b00294091" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Siemens Patches SCADA Holes, Downplays Threat", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/siemens-patches-scada-holes-downplays-threat-061311/75329/", "Date" : "June 13, 2011 , 3:50 pm", "Article" : "In the wake of a report about vulnerabilities in its products, Siemens issued a patch for its Simatic S7 industrial controllers on Monday. ICS CERT, the Cyber Emergency Response Team for Industrial Control Systems, issued an alert advising Siemens customers to apply the patch.  Siemens said its firmware update for the CPU component of the companyu2019s Simatic S7 programmable logic controllers (PLCs). The company acknowledged that the S7 PLCs contained a vulnerability that could have allowed attackers to capture and replay management commands sent to a PLC. The updated firmware will prevent commands captured from a management console to be transmitted to a controller and executed at a later time.  According to Siemens, unpatched S7 PLCs could be tricked into executing replayed commands (i.e. a STOP command) even if that PLC is protected by a password. More troubling, the captured management frames would appear to work on other Siemens S7 controllers within the same plant or other Siemens installations, provided those controllers were not password protected or somehow shared a password. Siemens provided a temporary work around for a second denial of service vulnerability, also discovered by NSS Labs researcher Dillon Beresford, that caused the S7 PLCu2019s CPU to stop when traffic to the device u2013 say from a routine network scan u2013 overloaded its communications interface. Siemens said such a shutdown would be the equivalent of a sudden power loss affecting the device. To mitigate that threat, the company recommended disabling the CPUu2019s Web server until the company can issue another firmware update that &quot;improves&quot; the behavior.  The vulnerabilities in the Siemens products u2013 which were also a target of the attackers responsible for the Stuxnet worm u2013 were disclosed to the company and ICS-CERT by Beresford in May. According to the ICS-CERT Alert, successful exploitation of the vulnerabilities could result in the loss of process control and could possibly cause damage to critical industrial control systems.  Beresford was originally scheduled to present information on the vulnerabilities at the TakedownCon in Dallas, but cancelled that talk because of concerns raised by Siemens and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). He is now scheduled to present information on the Siemens vulnerability at the annual Black Hat Briefings conference in Las Vegas in August.  Beresford and Siemens engaged in a war of words after he disclosed the breach, with Siemens suggesting that Beresfordu2019s method of testing didnu2019t correlate with real-world attack scenarios. The company kept up that line on Monday in its security advisory (PDF), saying that the holes were discovered u201cunder laboratory conditions and without any IT security measures in place.u201d The company notes that the remote attacks would need to come from an attacker with &quot;access to the automation network,&quot; though previously documented attacks on industrial control systems u2013 including Stuxnet u2013 frequently share that characteristic.  In a message posted on an online discussion forum frequented by industrial control specialists, Beresford said that the flaws he discovered are not difficult for a typical hacker ot exploit, and that he was able to compromise vulnerable S7 PLCs using Metasploit, a free penetration testing tool.  ICS security expert Ralph Langner has also called on Siemens to address unpatched vulnerabilities in its industrial control system hardware and software. Writing last week, Langner said that many of the critical vulnerabilities used by the Stuxnet worm remain unaddressed and could be targeted by subsequent attackers.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bf16cefc42b002940b4" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "China Sleeps On A Stuxnet-Like SCADA Bug", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/china-sleeps-stuxnet-scada-bug-011011/74834/", "Date" : "January 10, 2011 , 6:21 pm", "Article" : "One of the most widely used SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) applications in China may be harboring a critical security vulnerability that could allow an attacker to exploit the bugnand execute arbitrary code. The hole was discovered in an application produced byu00a0Wellintech, a Beijing based professional automation software company, according to Dillon Beresford, a security researcher at NSS Labs. Beresford wrote about the hole on his blog.u00a0 The hole is in the KingView Software, industrial automation software. That software is widely used within China and a vulnerable version of the software is available for download from Wellintechu2019s site, he said.u00a0 After he found the hole in September, Beresfordu00a0informed Wellintech and CN-CERT, Chinau2019s national Computer Emergency Response Team, but hasnu2019t heard back from either. He said he is not aware of any patches or other remediation efforts to address the issue to date. Inquiries by the researcher to US-CERT suggested that no action had been taken on the vulnerability.u00a0 Threatpost requests for comment from Wellintech and US-CERT were not returned prior to publication.u00a0 Beresfordnwrote a TCP bind shell script using The Metasploit Framework that is capable of exploiting thenvulnerability. That script has been submitted to Exploit-DB, an archive of exploits andnvulnerable software. The security of SCADA and industrial control systems has become an area of widespread concern since the discovery of the Stuxnet worm in 2010. That worm, which targeted programmable logic controllers by Siemens Inc. is widely believed to have targeted uranium enrichment facilities in Iran, but spread to other countries, as well, including India. By addressing this vulnerability, China and Wellintech couldnbe potentially curbing the risk of a Stuxnetnor Aurorantype mishap. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bfa6cefc42b002940c0" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Many Stuxnet Vulnerabilities Still Unpatched", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/many-stuxnet-vulnerabilities-still-unpatched-060811/75316/", "Date" : "June 8, 2011 , 3:57 pm", "Article" : "The media storm over the Stuxnet worm may have passed, but many of the software holes that were used by the worm remain unpatched and leave Siemens customers open to a wide range of potentially damaging cyber attacks, according to industrial control system expert Ralph Langner. Writing on his personal blog, Langner said that critical vulnerabilities remain in Windows-basedu00a0 management applications and software used to directly manage industrial controllers by Siemens Inc., whose products were targeted by the Stuxnet worm.  Siemens did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Langneru2019s statement. Langner, a principal and founder of Langner Communications GmbH is an independent expert on industrial control system security. He was among the first to connect the Stuxnet worm to an attack on uranium enrichment facilities within Iran. He was also among those who pinned responsibility for the attack on the United States and Israel. Langneru2019s company sells security software and services to firms in the industrial control field. In the past, he has been critical of both the media coverage of the Stuxnet worm and of Siemens response to revelations that software vulnerabilities and other structural weaknesses in its products contributed to the creation of Stuxnet and the success of the attack.  Writing on his blog on Tuesday, Langner said that the media paid too much attention to the four, zero day Windows vulnerabilities that enabled the Stuxnet worm, but overlooked the other security holes used by the worm. Unlike the Windows vulnerabilities, which Microsoft quickly fixed, many of the holes in Siemensu2019 products remain unpatched, he contends.  Langner enumerates three types of exploits used by Stuxnet u2013 only one category of which (Windows operating system exploits) have been closed. The other two are Windows applications exploits aimed at Siemens Siemens Simatic Manager and the Siemens WinCC SCADA application, and controller exploits aimed at Siemens S70-300 and 400 series controllers.  In the case of the Siemens Windows-based management software, attackers could use a combination of strategies to compromise these vulnerable components, including a hard coded password in the WinCC product that was leveraged by Stuxnet. Siemens famously advised customers not to change that password out of fear that doing so would disrupt communications between WinCC and its back end database. Langer says that Stuxnet combined the hard coded password backdoor with SQL injection attacks to compromise systems running WinCC. Without a software fix, other attackers could also follow in Stuxnetu2019s footsteps: hijacking a Siemens driver or tricking the software to run arbitrary code placed in engineering folders used by the products. Even more serious are unpatched and exploitable vulnerabilities on the controllers themselves. Langner said this category of vulnerability u201copens the door to extremely aggressive attacks that do not have to be nearly as surgical as it (sp) was seen in Stuxnet.u201du00a0  Stuxnet has provided a model that less sophisticated hackers can copy in future attacks. Attackers could, for example, learn from Stuxnet which code to insert into the vulnerable controller to freeze it in its current operating state. Such an attack would be hard to detect and require little knowledge of how the Siemens S7 controllers actually work. Fixing the holes is also difficult, because they are considered u201cfeaturesu201d of the Siemens controllers, rather than security holes, Langner said. Siemens customers have few choices to protect vulnerable installations. One is to use white listing technology to prevent unauthorized applications from running on the systems that are also running the Siemens software. However, firms using industrial control systems havenu2019t necessarily purchased white listing tools, and not all whitelisting products recognize and support the Siemens applications.  Beyond that, Langner said Siemens should update its industrial control products to recognize and support digitally signed code, preventing rogue attack code from being run by the devices. Long overlooked by malicious hackers, firms managing critical infrastructure and the vendors that serve that market now find themselves in the cross hairs of security researchers, as well as sophisticated cybercriminal groups and nation-state sponsored hackers. Both have been buffeted by reports of serious security holes in recent years that revealed a laissez faire attitude towards IT security.  To that point, Langner said that even the patched Windows holes could be used to attackn Siemens customers. Exploits for those holes are now part of commonlynavailable penetration testing tools like Metasploit and Canvas, and its likely that some Siemens customers have applied the patches to vulnerablensystems. Siemens customers should be very concerned about attacks and warned against the complacency that might result from coverage of Stuxnetu2019s uniqueness and complexity.  u201cOperation Myrtus required one or two geniuses to design Stuxnet,u201d he warns. u201cUnderstanding and copying the design can be achieved by average engineers. Even worse, the design AND PRODUCTION process can be packaged into a software tool , enabling immoral idiots and geniuses alike to configure highly aggressive cyber weapons.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365bfb6cefc42b002940c3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Search Engine Finds Vulnerable SCADA Systems", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/search-engine-finds-vulnerable-scada-systems-110210/74631/", "Date" : "November 2, 2010 , 5:28 pm", "Article" : "UPDATED: ICS-CERT, the emergency response team for industrial control systems, has warned companies that run SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) software that the systems running it may be easily discovered using a free Web based search engine dubbed Shodan.  The warning came in the form of an ICS-CERT Alert, published on October 28. The group, which is part of US-CERT, warns that u201cmultiple independent security researchersu201d have reported using SHODAN to discover Internet facing SCADA systems in u201cseveral critical infrastructure sectors.u201d The systems discovered range from systems used for remote access and monitoring, but also include systems with the ability to directly manage configuration of SCADA systems. Vulnerable devices range from a stand alone workstation to u201clarger wide area network configurations connecting remote facilities to central monitoring systems.u201d   Shodan is a Web based search engine that discovers Internet facing computers,including desktops, servers and routers. The engine, created by programmer John Matherly, allows users to filter searches for systems running a specific type of application (say, Apache Web servers or FTP) and filter results by geographic region. The search engine indexes host u2018banners,u2019 which includentmeta-data sent between a server and client and includes information such as the type of software run, what services are available and so on.u00a0 The Shodan engine isnu2019t discovering SCADA systems that were previously inaccessible from the public Internet. Rather, it greatly lowers the technical bar needed to canvas the Internet for such systems, ICS-CERT said.  ICS-CERT is coordinating with the affected software vendors and Information Sharing and Analysis Centers (ISACS) for affected verticals to resolve the specific security issues reported to the center. However, the steep increase in reporting about publicly accessible SCADA systems prompted ICS-CERT to issue a general warning to all critical infrastructure operators.  Some of the systems discovered are still insecure passwords that are easy targets for brute force attacks. Other systems reported to the CERT were found to still use default passwords that can be retrieved from product documentation or online default password repositories, the Alert warned.  The illusion of security through obscurity is fast fading for companies that manage critical infrastructure such as power plants, electric distribution grids, and water treatment facilities. The recent Stuxnet worm, which was created to manipulate programmable logic controllers used by Siemens, Inc., signalled the advent of threats targeted specifically at SCADA systems. That has set off a scramble for SCADA security talent among IT vendors. Security experts say that the critical infrastructure sector is still dangerously uninformed about modern threats and attacks, still counting on the obscurity of SCADA systems to keep them safe from attack. u201cThe simple answer isnthat anything of critical importance should never be connected to the Internet. Ever.u201d said Shodan creator Matherly in an e-mail to Threatpost. u201cAs the recent Siemens incident shows, many of these systemsnhave glaring security problems or donu2019t have proper security teams in place.u201d Control system operators were advised to conduct an audit their existing systems, including those not directly connected to the Internet, to make sure that no weak or default passwords are being used. In addition, operators are advised to place any control systems behind firewalls and to isolate them from business networks. Virtual Private Networks (VPN) should be used for remote access to such systems and strong passwords and access management strategies should be employed, the Alert says.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c076cefc42b002940d6" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Adobe Exploit Bypasses ASLR and DEP, Drops Signed Malicious File", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/adobe-exploit-bypasses-aslr-and-dep-drops-signed-malicious-file-090910/74445/", "Date" : "September 9, 2010 , 3:38 pm", "Article" : "Attackers are using a previously unknown exploitation technique that bypasses both ASLR and DEP to exploit the unpatched Adobe Reader bug that Adobe warned users about on Wednesday. The exploit works on machines running either Windows Vista or Windows 7 and is also dropping a file on compromised machines that is signed using a stolen, valid digital certificate. Adobe published an advisory about the new Reader bug on Wednesday, but was stingy with the details, saying only that it affected Reader 9.3.4 and earlier versions and could cause the application to crash.  u201cThis vulnerability (CVE-2010-2883) could cause a crash andnpotentially allow an attacker to take control of the affected system.nThere are reports that this vulnerability is being actively exploited inn the wild. Adobe is in the process of evaluating the schedule for an update to resolve this vulnerability,u201d the company said in its advisory. However, researchers who have looked at the publicly available exploits say that the bug itself is a stack-based buffer overflow in Reader that uses a novel exploitation technique that makes use of return-oriented programming to bypass the exploit mitigations ASLR (Address Space Layout Randomization) and DEP (Data Execution Protection).  u201cWhat I havenu2019t mentioned yet, is that this exploit document doesnsomething that I havenu2019t seen in the wild yet. This exploit works onnWindows Vista and Windows 7. Unlike the previous exploits, it is notndependent on a hardcoded Windows XP syscall. Additionally, it uses anpreviously unpublished technique to bypass ASLR,u201d Metasploit researcher Joshua J. Drake said in his analysis of the exploit. u201cThe gadgets thatn are used for this ROP payload come from a module named u2018icucnv36.dllu2019.nThis module does not support ASLR (nor does it opt in to DEP, althoughnthat is largely irrelevant).u201d Adobeu2019s products are high on the list of targets for attackers these days, and this new attack brings a couple of interesting twists, aside from the bypass of ASLR and DEP on Windows 7.  On Wednesday, Roel Schouwenberg, a researcher at Kaspersky Lab, said that the malicious file installed on machines compromised via the new Reader exploit is digitally signed using a valid certificate belonging to a credit union in Missouri.  u201cWhile most malicious PDFs download their payload, this time the PDFnhas malicious content embedded.  The PDF drops an executable into then%temp% directory and tries to execute it,u201d Schouwenberg said. u201cThe file it drops is digitally signed with a valid signature from a US-based Credit Union!u201d This is the second major attack in the last few months that has used a stolen certificate to sign a malicious file. The Stuxnet attack, which exploited a previously unknown bug in the Windows shell, included two separate files that were signed by two Taiwanese technology companies. This technique has been seen in the past, but not in the kind of sophisticated exploits involved in the Stuxnet and Reader attacks.  Adobe has not specified when it plans to release a patch for the Reader bug. The company is planning to add a sandbox to upcoming versions of Reader to help prevent attacks against the application from affecting the rest of a system, something that customers and security experts have been calling for Adobe to do for some time.  u201cIt sure seems like the attackers are feeling the pressure of Adobeu2019s upcoming sandbox,u201d Drake said in his analysis. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c0a6cefc42b002940db" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Week in Security: Toorcon and SecTor Wrap-up, Bugs and Stuxnet Stances", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/week-security-toorcon-and-sector-wrap-bugs-and-stuxnet-stances-102910/74621/", "Date" : "October 29, 2010 , 2:21 pm", "Article" : "Autumn conferences grabbed the headlines this week as presentations at the Toorcon Conference in San Diego and SecTor in Toronto wrapped up October, with revelations about the vulnerability of social networking sessions and critical infrastructure headlining.u00a0 In San Diego, talks at Toorcon came with one common thread:nThe Internet is getting older. A host of new Web-based services and Internet enabled mobile devices are combining to make it more and more difficult fornthe Internet u2013 built on 30 year old technology u2013 to keep up. A tool as basic as e-mail which has been aroundnfor decades still lacks proper security while mobile phones are causingnheadaches of their own. Social networking looked especially vulnerable this week as Firesheep,nan extension for Firefox, showed it could easily hijack users.u00a0Unveilednat Toorcon by Ian Gallagher of Security Innovation and independent securitynconsultant Eric Butler, the attack exploits unencrypted wireless connections tonspy on users on Facebook, Flickr and iGoogle. Firesheep was followed, later in the week, byu00a0antool named Idiocy that could hijack unsecured Twitternsessions. Unlike Firesheep however, when hacked it merely warns users ofntheir unsafe browsing, tweeting: u201cI browsed twitter insecurely on a publicnnetwork and all I got was this lousy tweet.u201d In Toronto, antalk at SecTour taught us that attacks donu2019t always have to be directed at usersnbut can be more successful by targeting benign websites and then their users.nBy generating a specific session cookie, hackers can glean additionalninformation to better own their victims, according to researcher/Evercookiencreator Samy Kamkar. Kamkarnhighlighted these techniques in depth with Dennis on Wednesday and also discussedna new exploit that uses cross-site scripting and Google geolocationninformation. The sanctity of user generated information was also the subject of a series of class action lawsuits filed in Federal district court in California in recent days, Threatpost reported. The suits, which target social networking giant Facebook, social gaming firm Zynga and Google claim the companies are violating the terms of their own user agreements and federal and state laws by leaking sensitive information via http referrer u2013 those long, complicated URLs that are generated as you fill out forms online or surf from one Web site to the next.u00a0 The topic of critical infrastructure security was back in the headlinesnthis week. At Toorcon, Jeremy Brown of security firm Tenable warned that manynsupervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)ncompanies need to step up their security game.  Stuxnet, which wormed itsnway through SCADA security in July, was also the focus of a talk at SecTor. Onnthe other side of the coin, security consultant James Arlen reasoned that muchnof Stuxnetu2019s hype has been overblown and in the end, encouragednprofessionals to just u201ctake a deep breath.u201d The week wouldnu2019t be complete without a few vulnerabilitiesnto report. On Wednesday Mozillanconfirmed a bug in their Firefox browser and claimed they were working tonpatch it. This particular bug, originally found on the Nobel Peace Prizenwebsite, was planting malware on useru2019s computers. Adobeu2019s security woes continued. The company disclosedu00a0yet another zero-day bug in their Flash platformu00a0on Thursday. Already exploited in attacksnagainst Reader on Android and Reader for Windows and Mac, the bug wonu2019t benaddressed until a patch is released on Nov. 9. What piqued your interest this week? AndrewnStorms talked Firesheep and easy pwnage while we took a look into Bredolab,nthe latest botnet crackdown. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c0d6cefc42b002940e2" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Expert Advises Caution on SCADA Security Hysteria", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/expert-advises-caution-scada-security-hysteria-102810/74619/", "Date" : "October 28, 2010 , 6:09 pm", "Article" : "TORONTOu2013The months-long hysteria over Stuxnet and its hyper-sophistication and passel of unknown vulnerabilities has had the effect of creating a secondary wave of panic about the vulnerability of industrial control and SCADA systems. But the concern about spontaneous utility outages and surreptitiously poisoned food supplies are overblown and largely misplaced, an expert says. In a talk at the SecTor conference here this week, James Arlen, a security consultant and frequent speaker at conferences on a variety of topics, looked closely at the stories and commentary on SCADA security coming out of the Stuxnet episode and found that there seemed to be a fundamental misunderstanding of the way that these complex systems work. The idea that a remote attacker, no matter how sophisticated or well-funded, could cause mass chaos in a water plant or food-production facility by compromising one or two control systems just doesnu2019t wash, he said. u201cThere are safety systems in place, and theyu2019re not connected to the control systems. They canu2019t be,u201d Arlen said. u201cEven if you somehow compromise the right machine and youu2019re somehow able to access the bleach-injection system that they have sitting around in the cookie plant but just never use, and you change the recipe and make some bleach cookies, theyu2019re going in the garbage. They have product testing. They have safety.u201d Industrial-control and data-acquisition systems are designed to tolerate failures, which happen constantly without most people ever noticing. Water continues to flow, the electricity stays on and food and medicine are produced every day. Large-scale failures are not only common, they are expected. u201cThey planned for this, because stuff breaks all the time,u201d Arlen said. u201cSystems are designed to handle two simultaneous major failures and you donu2019t even notice. You feel minor little things, but the system doesnu2019t break. Thereu2019s no zombies wandering the streets looking for food. When was the last time you didnu2019t have water? Right now, thereu2019s some significant piece of Ontariou2019s power grid thatu2019s broken and itu2019s being fixed. You donu2019t notice.u201d Because Stuxnet was designed to target a specific operating system produced by Siemens thatu2019s used in industrial control systems, many people made the leap and assumed that attackers have a backlog of undisclosed bugs in proprietary operating systems like Siemensu2019 WinCC system. And that leaves our utilities and factories and other critical systems vulnerable to attackers with sophisticated tools and tactics.  But, as Arlen pointed out, few people outside of the industries in question have any understanding of the proprietary protocols used in these applications, let alone how they operate in real-world settings and what a compromise of a particular machine might get you. He pointed to the staged demonstration earlier this year of a generator destroying itself after the Aurora exploit was used against its computer control system as an example. u201cThe idea that your garden-variety Def Con attendee can do this, it isnu2019t going to happen. Thatu2019s why they had to stage it and couldnu2019t just point to an incident,u201d Arlen said.  Arlen did not discount the sophistication of Stuxnet; in fact, he acknowledged that itu2019s one of the more interesting pieces of malware to date. But, he encouraged security professionals to take a deep breath and assess the situation rationally. u201cStuxnet is the first time weu2019ve seen an intelligent piece of malware. Itu2019s the first generation,u201d Arlen said. u201cItu2019s an engineered artifact that was designed to do something specific. Itu2019s an awesome piece of malicious code. Most infosec people are running around screaming and control systems people are wondering what to do.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c146cefc42b002940ec" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Donu2019t Say I Never Told You: Researcher Warned Congress Of Stuxnet Variants 10 Months Ago", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/dont-say-i-never-told-you-researcher-warned-congress-stuxnet-variants-10-months-ago-072911/75493/", "Date" : "July 29, 2011 , 5:10 pm", "Article" : "Stuxnet may have been super sophisticated cyber weapon deployed by state actors, but future generations of the malware will be available to run of the mill script kiddies, a noted expert on security and industrial control systems has warned in a letter to the U.S. Congress ten months ago. Ralph Langner, the UK-based security consultant, released a copy of a confidential letter u00a0addressed to a member of the U.S. House of Representatives. In it, Langer warns that malicious hackers will use the Stuxnet wormu2019s code as a foundation for a generic malware platform to attack programmable logic controllers.u00a0 u201cSooner or later, every script kiddy (sp) will be able to assemble and distribute it as worm payload,u201d Langner warns.u00a0 The warning comes the same week as officials at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) warned members of Congress about the threat posed by future Stuxnet worm variants.u00a0 In a statement published on Tuesday, Sean P. McGurk and Roberta Stempfley of the DHSu2019 Office of Cyber Security and Communications warned that as the makeup of Stuxnet becomes increasingly more public; attackers could cultivate their own copycat variants of the worm. Their statement was part of a hearing by the House Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations on Tuesday. Langner seconded that in a blog post on Friday, saying he was u201cvery much concerned about the threat of Stuxnet-inspired attacks.u201d A copy of his e-mail, dated September 19, 2010, is included in the blog post and is addressed to a u201cCongressperson who is concerned with critical infrastructure proetection against cyber threats,u201d Langner said. The name of the member of congress the e-mail was addressed to was obscured.u00a0 In the e-mail, Langner reiterated positions he has articulated publicly before.u00a0While many of the Windows based vulnerabilities used by the worm have been fixed,u00a0other Stuxnet vulnerabilities u201ccannot be patchedu201d he says, u00a0referring to problems that are inherent to the way SCADA and industrial control systems are designed and deployed. He also said that, while Congress and the public have focused on the sophisticated nature of Stuxnet and the attack on Iranu2019s uranium enrichment facilities, attacks against critical infrastructure do not require sophisticated attackers.u00a0 u201cOne can use exploit code to attack PLCs without any insider knowledge at all,u201d Langner wrote.u00a0 The Stuxnet worm was highly targeted at a particular type of programmable logic controller and a particular type of operation. However, the worm wasnu2019t perfect.u00a0u00a0Within the foreseeable future, Langner warned, denial of service attacks against critical infrastructure and other systems that rely on programmable logical controllers could be at the fingertips of even unsophisticated hackers.u00a0Since it was first detected just over a year ago, Stuxnet has been analyzed in detail.  The analysis supports the idea that the worm was created by nation-state actors u2013 possibly the U.S. in cooperation with Israel.u00a0The wormu2019s source code has also been leaked online by members of the hacktivist group Anonymous. Security experts warn that the code could serve as the foundation for future variants.u00a0u201cWith the growing public body of knowledge on Stuxnet, the risk increases that these more capable for-hire teamsu2019 efforts may be informed by the Stuxnet design,u201d Kurt Baumgartner, a senior security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, told Threatpost. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c196cefc42b002940f6" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "The Next Security Scandal Will Be An Attack on High Frequency Trading Systems", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/next-security-scandal-will-be-attack-high-frequency-trading-systems-072811/75490/", "Date" : "July 28, 2011 , 9:34 pm", "Article" : "The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission voted on Tuesday to impose new rules to help oversee what experts warn is a burgeoning and little understood shadow market of ultra high-speed, computer based trading. But one security expert warns that new reporting rules are only part of the problem. High frequency trading systems are also dangerously insecure, with few protections against manipulation by outside actors or rogue insiders.u00a0 Independent security consultant James Arlen says that banks and financial services organizations are ignoring the threat of attacks on the systems they use to conduct high frequency trading u2013 sometimes referred to as u201calgorithmic trading.u201d The absence of both security and oversight of security for the trading systems could pose a systemic risk to the U.S.- and global financial system, Arlen warns.u00a0 Arlen will be discussing his findings at next weeku2019s Black Hat Briefings in Las Vegas in a discussion, u201cSecurity When Nanoseconds Count.u201d He said that the rapid evolution of high frequency, computer based trading has happened in an environment devoid of security, while contemporary IT security products are geared to traditional IT environments that operate at much slower speeds.u00a0 u201cYouu2019re talking about security products that have operational latencies that are measured in milliseconds,u201d Arlen told Threatpost on Wednesday. u201cThatu2019s about 100,000 times too slow to be a player in real time environments like these.u201d  The result, Arlen warns, is that high frequency trading systems that connect brokers to exchanges and other parties involved in the trades are vulnerable to attack. u201cThese systems are executing trades on very short time scales, and when weu2019re talking about u2018shortu2019 weu2019re talking about microseconds.u201d u00a0New, ultra low latency switches and other hardware from vendors like Cisco and Juniper may push that threshold even lower -offering latencies in the nanosecond (or one billionth of a second) range, he said. u00a0 High frequency, computer based trading has already been blamed for large scale market disruptions. In the most lurid example, high frequency trading was blamed for a May 6, 2010 u201cflash crashu201d that saw the Dow Jones Industrial Average drop 900 points in a matter of minutes before quickly recovering. An SEC report on that incident determined that u201cThe combined selling pressure from the Sell Algorithm, HFTs (High Frequency Trades) and other tradersu201d were the causes of that crash. Automated, high frequency trading has also been linked to other precipitous drops in equity and commodities markets in recent years.u00a0 The new SEC rule is intended to provide some oversight of high frequency trading operations. It requires large traders to identify themselves to the SEC and broker-dealers to maintain transaction records for each large trader and report that information to the SEC upon request. But the new rule does nothing to address security concerns that are rife within HFT system, Arlen says. Among the challenges of providing security around high frequency trading systems is that they often rely on custom or altered hardware and software that is optimized for speed. u201cThese systems are not using normal network cards, theyu2019re doing complete OS (operating system) bypass u2013 so you have an application building the trade as an Ethernet frame in memoryu00a0an dumping it directly to the wire,u201d he said. HFT systems often rely on custom TCP/IP stacks that are ill equipped to manage unexpected or malicious traffic from within the system. Similarly, the algorithms used to execute trades are often tweaked in real time during the trading day to respond to market conditions often with only minor regression testing on the back end- akin to pushing an alpha code into production. Such actions are hardly the exception to the rule, Arlen said.u00a0 u201cThis is just part of (HFTsu2019) operational profile. If the only way to make money is to have great algorithms, then you have to put that change in in real time,u201d he said.u00a0 Vulnerabilities abound. The Flash Crash of 2010 was ultimately traced back to operator error, which is an ever present danger. But Arlen said that bad actors and even state sponsored threats are equally worth considering. u201cYou have to think about this in the way that nerdy people think, which is u2018How many ways can I cause disruption?'u201d Among the ways he envisions is for bad actors within the HFT system to take out u2013 or just slow down u2013 competing trading systems using malicious traffic. Additionally, companies doing HFTs should scrutinize any exposure their HFT systems have to outside attacks. Contractor laptops or even desktop systems used by traders to work on trading algorithms could all be points of access for a malicious actor or nation state that wants to disrupt the markets, possibly as the opening salvo in a wider cyber war, he said.  Arlen says the problem isnu2019t limited to trading systems. Critical infrastructure, including energy and transportation are increasingly using high frequency, realtime systems to manage more and more complex systems efficiently. Unfortunately, the information security field hasnu2019t responded to the growth of such systems. u201cWeu2019re still operating in a mode where we think its OK to add miliseconds of latency. Because we think information security doesnu2019t demand low latency, security vendors havenu2019t delivered on low latency.u201du00a0In the meantime, financial services firms and others in the HFT second are taking a u201csee no evil, hear no evilu201d approach u2013 believing that no security is necessary around HFT systems because there hasnu2019t yet been a security incident involving them. u201cTheir attitude is that nothing has happened yet, so thereu2019s not a problem,u201d he said. Unfortunately, when that event does occur, it could be disruptive, with global exchanges collapsing in flash crashes, or merely quieter scandals involving the manipulation of high frequency trades by rogue insiders.u00a0Recent incidents suggest that cyber criminals and even state sponsored hackers have taken an interest in the software and systems that undergird Western markets and exchanges. An attack on systems belonging to NASDAQ in February caught the attention of the U.S. Secret Service. In July, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange admitted that a rogue employee had attempted to hand proprietary software to competitors in China.  Arlen believes that attacks targeting high frequency trades are inevitable, in the same way that attacks on critical infrastructure like power generation plants were predicted long before the appearance of worms like Stuxnet. The solution, he says, may be a combination of regulation and oversight, as well as investment by IT firms in new systems that can provide security in ultra fast computing environments where the outcome of specific events is less predictable.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c1c6cefc42b002940fa" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet Part Deux? US Officials Warn of Stuxnet Variants", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stuxnet-part-deux-us-officials-warn-stuxnet-variants-072811/75489/", "Date" : "July 28, 2011 , 7:20 pm", "Article" : "Officials at the Department of Homeland Security warned lawmakers this week thatnwe may not have seen the last of Stuxnet, the infamous wormnthat wound its way through SCADA systemsnjust over a year ago. In a statement published on Tuesday, Sean P. McGurk andnRoberta Stempfley of the DHSu2019 Office of Cyber Security and Communicationsnwarned that as the makeup of Stuxnet becomes increasingly more public; attackersncould cultivate their own copycat variants of the worm.Their statement was part of a hearing by the House Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations on Tuesday. Last July Stuxnet made headlines as it swept through SCADAnsystems undetected, infecting programmable logic controllers (PLCs). Thisnweek U.S. officials warned that going forward a new variant of Stuxnet couldntake aim toward u201cbroader installationsu201d of programmable equipment in controlnsystems. u201cLooking ahead, the Department is concerned that attackers could use the increasingly public information about the code to develop variants targeted at broader installations of programmable equipment in control systems. Copies of the Stuxnet code, in various different iterations, have been publicly available for some time now. ICS-CERT and the NCCIC remain vigilant and continue analysis and mitigation efforts of any derivative malware,u201d the officials said in their testimony. Kurt Baumgartner, a senior security researcher at KasperskynLab, suggests that for-hire offensive security groups could have the advancedntechnical know-how to pull off an attack similar to Stuxnet.  u201cWith the growing public body of knowledge on Stuxnet, thenrisk increases that these more capable for-hire teamsu2019 efforts may be informednby the Stuxnet design,u201d Baumgartner said. While the worm was built as a modular package, replacingnvendor specific system codes for its redeployment would be challenging and easier said than done. u201cThe individual modules require very specific and targetednskill sets and concrete knowledge for development,u201d Baumgartner added, describingnthe sophistication of the worm. Baumgartner regards the statement from the DHS as makingngood on their security mission by better defining the role of the Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT).nProtecting the nationu2019s infrastructure from Stuxnet copycats falls under thisnrole. German researcher Ralph Langner, who first realized thatnStuxnet was infecting PLCs, raised the possibility of Stuxnet variants lastnfall on his blog.u00a0  u201cStuxnet storynwill raise a lot of attention in the hacker community where people may nownstart to try using the attack vector for much more trivial motivations,u201d Langner posited. He even went as far as to e-mail the DHS about his researchnlast September, alerting them that black hats could write exploit code thatncould be adapted to the nefarious worm.  u201cMANY lights will go off,u201d Langner warned. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c256cefc42b00294108" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Pentagon Adds Cyber-Weapons to List of Arms", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/pentagon-adds-cyber-weapons-list-arms-060111/75293/", "Date" : "June 1, 2011 , 6:00 pm", "Article" : "The Pentagon is compiling a list of offensive cyber-weapons capable of deliberately crippling or destroying an adversaryu2019s critical infrastructure according to a recent report in the Washington Post. This collection of cyber weapons is part of a broader list of weapons approved by the Pentagon for use against Americau2019s enemies. According to an unnamed military source cited in the report, this list comes with stipulations. The cyber-weapons come in three tiers: global, regional, and area of hostility, with the global arenau2019s lack of predictability and potential for collateral effects calling for the most restraint. Some cyber offensive actions will also require the authorization of the President u2013 even in a time of war. For example, a presidential OK would be necessary for an intrusion upon a foreign computer network if the intent of such an intrusion were to leave behind a virus that could be activated at a later time. Furthermore, any such intrusion must be proportional to the threat against which it is acting and must avoid collateral damage and civilian casualties. However, no presidential authority is required if a network is penetrated in order to determine the cyber-capabilities of an adversary, examine how their networks operate, or to leave beacons to mark the locations of potential future targets. The report also claims that that U.S. is presently developing and implementing technologies intended to deter enemies from using computer systems to attack American networks. However, the report stops short of going into specifics about what sorts of actions could bring about a cyber-strike. The specter of cyber warfare has been in the forefront of discussions about cyber security for years now. Crippling cyberattacks linked to conflicts in Estonia and Georgia have made headlines, as have hacks of critical infrastructure like a carbon trading exchange in Europe and the Stuxnet worm attack on Iranu2019s uranium enrichment program. Washington D.C. is abuzz with word of a new Obama Administration cyberspace strategy that, among other things, declares the United Statesu2019 intention to assert its rights online and if necessary, respond to cyber-threats with force. A new report out from a Washington D.C. think tank with close ties to the Administration has called for an overhaul of U.S. cyber strategy, including a kind of Monroe Doctrine for cyberspace, that promises a clearer articulation of the U.S.u2019s willingness to act in response to online attacks against its interests.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c256cefc42b00294109" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Threatpostu2019s List of the Top 10 Security Top 10 Lists", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/threatposts-list-top-10-security-top-10-lists-123010/74811/", "Date" : "December 30, 2010 , 7:23 pm", "Article" : "Ever since the traditional print industry collapsed in on itself like a decommissioned u2018Vegas casino, replaced with blogs, micro blogs, social networking and other forms of Web based publishing, the end of the year has brought with it a blizzard of retrospective and prospective Top 10 lists from click hungry sites. Thereu2019s a good reason for this, of course: data says that you readers like u2019em. Top 10 lists are really like editorial Happy Meals u2013 conceptual packages that say to the reader u201cYou donu2019t have to do anything u2013 weu2019ve got everything you need behind this one link!u201d  The problem is that Top 10 lists, like most other things, are subject to abuse and over use. We blog sites and Web publishers use them throughout the year to attract attention to a particular idea, but they really rain down on readers with the advent of the New Year and our (natural) tendency to want to look back and imagine the future, simultaneously.  The IT security space is no different. Even though computer security is just one slim branch on the vast oak tree that is Web publishing, there are still Top 10- and Best Of lists flying at readers from all quarters u2013 vendor sponsored, publisher sponsored, individually generated. Threatpost, of course, has dipped its toe in the water here, with our Five Security Trends to Watch in 2011. But what you really need is someone to read them through then mash togetheru2026erru2026u201dcurateu201d a list of the best. Thatu2019s what weu2019ve done here with our Top 10 Security Top 10 Listsu2026list?! Enjoy!  10. Top Security Trends of 2010: A Look Back  Not too bad. A security news fast ball, straight down the middle of the plate. Tony Bradley at PC World calls out Stuxnet, Aurura, the crackdown on the Mariposa botnet and social media hacking as top trends for 2010. Hard to disagree with this list.u00a0  9. Top Threats to Cloud Computing (.PDF)  OK, this one actually came out in March, so its no end of year u201clook back.u201d Still, the Cloud Security Allianceu2019s first ever list of the biggest security threats stemming from cloud-based deployments is still an indispensable resource. Among the issues that CSA calls out: insecure APIs, malicious insiders and inadequate authentication, authorization and audit (AAA) controls. Add this to your end of year reading list. 8. Five Cloud Security Trends Experts See for 2011 After youu2019re done reading the CSAu2019s list of top cloud threats, peer into your crystal ball with CSO writer Bob Violinou2019s Five cloud security trends experts see for 2011u2033 top five cloud security trends for 2011. 7. Top Security Stories of 2010 (Alertlogic)Alan Shimel and crew at Alert Logic are rolling out a blog post a day highlighting the top security trends and stories. So far, the group has called out trends like mobile insecurity, app insecurity, the sentencing of TJX/Heartland Payments hacker Albert Gonzalez and the emergence of cyberwar as trends that are likely to carry over into the new year. Good job!u00a0  6. 10 Great ways to get hacked in the New Year (Acunetix) The winner of this yearu2019s u201cDonu2019t think about an Elephantu201d award goes to Acunetix for its list of u201c10 great ways to get hacked in the New Year.u201d Among the list of greatu2026erru2026terrible suggestions from the firm: u201cdonu2019t enforce strong passwords,u201d using a Web application firewall to u201ccover up known SQL injectionu201d holes, ignoring all the ASP.net oracle padding vulnerabilities that keep cropping up, and focusing on audit compliance over security. Nice!  5. 2011 Security Predictions (zScaler and Websense)  The smart people over at Web security firm zScaler have been the source for quite a few Threatpost stories in the past year and, in general, strike us as folks who u201cget it,u201d especially around topics like Web security and malware. Their list of 2011 Security Predictions, then, caught our attention. Some of their trends (data breaches, app store abuse, niche malware for IP enabled u201cstuffu201d) overlap with Threatpostu2019s u201cFive Trends to Watch in 2011.u201d Others struck us as bold and interesting, notably: mobile malvertising (the subversion of mobile ad netowrks like iAd and AdMob) and a data breach that exploits cloud-shared resources and COTS (commercial, off the shelf) technology. 4. So, too, did the list of 2011 predictions from the researchers at Web security firm Websensen Among the trends Websense sees: more and more dangerous blended threatsn like Zeus and SpyEye, a faster turn around for zero day holes andnthreats targeting mobile devices like iPhone and iPad. 3. 2010u2019s biggest security snafusu00a0 AND PC Tools worst security blunders of 2010  To paraphrase Tolstoy u201call successful security programs are the same,u201d but each security snafu fails in its own way. Thatu2019s what makes lists of security screw ups oh-so-much more interesting than security advice and trends lists. We saw two nice lists that shone a light on the biggest slip-ups of the year. Network Worldu2019s top Security Snafus list calls out Googleu2019s abortive effort to take a stand against the Chinese government in the wake of the Aurora hacking incident. Google also won notoriety for its liberal data snarfing policies with its Street View program. There was the hack of Appleu2019s iPad VIP list by Goatse Security and u2013 of course u2013 the theft of a quarter million diplomatic cables from the U.S. Department of Defenseu2019s classified intelligence network. PC Tools list took more of a TMZ approach u2013 noting prominent hacks of computers and social networking accounts belonging to celebrities like Lady Gaga and reality star Angelina Pivarnicks. Hey, celebrities are people, too! 2. The Year in Downtime Atn Threatpost, we spend most of our time writing about man-made threats u2013nworms, viruses, denial of service attacks and the like. But the listncompiled by Data Center Knowledge of the biggest data center outages ofnthe year reminds us that some of the biggest threats to our ITninfrastructure come from natural events u2013 storms, floods, accidents ofnvarious sites, as well as from less predictable u201cfloodsu201d of humannactivity. Its a fascinating list that comprises both data centernoutages and social media outages, with a noticeable lack of outagesndo to malware or hacking. Food for thought.  1. Top 10 Sexy Infosec Geeks of 2010 Sexyn isnu2019t a word that readily comes to mind when you think of informationnsecurity. And anyone whou2019s ever strolled the crowded hallways andnconference rooms at, say, Defcon in Las Vegas can attest to the factnthat, for security geeks, attraction is really a neck-up affair. Still,nthat doesnu2019t mean there arenu2019t hotties out there walking amidst the bearded and pierced rankn and file, Arduino boards in tow. So weu2019ll give it up to Mike Dahn and his Chaordic Mind blogn for the annual u201cTop 10 Sexy Infosec Geek list.u201d WE love the fact thatnthis is a co-ed list, that its members were user-nominated and that PRnflak reprenstation on the list is low (Dahn groups three of the cuternsecurity-focused flaks at number 10. As for the #1 sexiest Geek u2013 mynformer 451 colleague Andrew Hay? Well, thatu2019s just the icing on the cake.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c2c6cefc42b00294113" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Threatpostu2019s Five Security Trends to Watch in 2011", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/threatposts-five-security-trends-watch-2011-122910/74806/", "Date" : "December 29, 2010 , 4:59 pm", "Article" : "2010 ended with dire predictions about a new age of Internet enabled hacker-activism, but the big story in 2011 will be the explosion in IP enabled, loosely secured, Internet connected stuff. Itu2019s the time of year when all of us gaze into the crystal ball and think of what the next 12 months has in store. Thatu2019s a tough thing to do. In the IT security business, itu2019s even tougher, as the big events in the computer security world often turn on whatu2019s not readily discoverable: unknown holes in common software platforms, loosely configured servers holding sensitive data, the dark ruminations of malicious (but normal-seeming) employees.u00a0 But when you step back a bit from specific events and it gets a bit easier to discern the terrain ahead. Last year, at this time, for example, Threatpost contributor Dino Dai Zovi looked into the mists of 2010 and saw sandboxes u2013 lots of them. And lo and behold, we saw leading vendors including Google and Adobe embracing sandboxing as a way to contain malware this year. Now its Threatpostu2019s turn to play the oracle: predicting some of the salient security trends that weu2019re likely to be writing about in 2011. Hereu2019s our list of five security trends you should be watching for.u00a0  Wikileaks: Itu2019s the leak, stupid We in the media love a big story: something important and momentous with lots of depth and layers to reveal. These are stories that just keep on giving u2013 revealing new truths and layers of complexity with each passing day. The problem comes when we try to extrapolate from big stories u2013 looking into the crystal ball and taking a guess at what will come next, or what the long term impact of those u201cbig storiesu201d will be.u00a0 So it was with Wikileaks, one of the top stories of 2010, which centered on the online release of a hoard of classified diplomatic cables, but quickly expanded to include online attacks and counter attacks by motivated activists supporting- and opposed to Wikileaks mission. Pundits were quick to hail the arrival of politically motivated u201chacktivismu201d as the new normal and distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks as a potent cyber weapon for which there was no easy defense. We at Threatpost think there are lots of reasons to suspect that politically motivated hacking and DDoS attacks will be prevalent in 2011, but that u201chacktivismu201d as a trend will lose its bluster and that future incidents wonu2019t generate either the headlines or the sense of urgency that Wikileaks and the corresponding attacks by the online group Anonymous did in the waning weeks of 2010.  For one thing, loosely organized hacker-activist groups like Anonymous, 4Chan and others have been operating for years.u00a0 Their methods and motivations havenu2019t changed radically over that time u2013 DDoS attacks have long been the weapon of choice for punishing those sites or voices you wish to silence online. Just consider the politically motivated attacks on Estonia in 2007 and on Russia and Georgia in 2008 as recent examples of this. At the end of the day, the Wikileaks DDoS attacks were big news because Wikileaks Cablegate was big news u2013 not the other way around. Take away the huge breach of the U.S. military and diplomatic security and the u201chacktivismu201d of Anonymous, J35st3r and the rest can be seen for what they really are: business as usual in the early 21st Century. While hacktivism, itself, isnu2019t likely to be any more of an issue in 2011 than it was in 2010, we think the issue at the center of the Wikileaks controversy: a massive data breach is likely to be one that makes headlines throughout 2011. As Yankee Group analyst Ted Julian pointed out in his Threatpost Op-Ed this week, Wikileaksu2019 amplifies the impact of data breaches, as other groups and individuals tear pages out of Julian Assangeu2019s playbook: combining sensitive and confidential data with media savvy and the Internetu2019s ubiquity to score points against political or economic adversaries. That u2013 and the increasing interest of statesu2019 attorneys general in data leak litigation u2013 will put more emphasis on companies to get a grasp on disparate data and knotted user access policies. Count on it! Hacking u201cStuffu201d The wrapping paper wasnu2019t even gone from under the Christmas tree before millions of newly empowered consumers began connecting their iPhones, iPads, Droids, Kindles and u2013 increasingly u2013 Internet enabled TVs and home appliances to the u2018Net.u00a0 Thereu2019s no question that all that IP-enabled u201cstuffu201d will be a boon to enterprising hackers u2013 white hat and otherwise u2013 in 2011. In truth, we have already been seeing evidence of this in 2010. Researchers Travis Goodspeed and Michael Ossmann used their presentation at this yearu2019s ToorCon in San Diego to explore the capabilities of the IM-Me wireless text messaging toy for girls, which the researchers were able to reprogram to serve as a spectrum analyzer, garage door opener and automobile keyless entry device. The New York Times this week wrote about security holes in the latest generation of IP-enabled television sets that could allow malicious hackers to carry phishing and other attacks from the desk to the living room.  And TVs and consumer devices may not be the only targets. We reported last week on the arrests of more than a dozen individuals linked to an online scam that leveraged compromised voice over IP (VoIP) servers to call premium rate numbers. With services like the Shodan search engine now indexing SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) servers, we expect to see an uptick in attacks on vulnerable VoIP infrastructure. Looking further afield, we think cars may, at long last, find themselves in the cross hairs of motivated hackers in 2011. Momentumu2019s been building for this for a while. In May, Threatpostu2019s Dennis Fisher reported on research from the University of California that revealed weaknesses in the security used to protect the software that runs automobiles and a u201cdeep relianceu201d of autos on u201crelatively simple softwareu201d thatu2019s easy to exploit. Thatu2019s bad news, because the automobile industry is on the cusp of a tech-enabled multimedia explosion as consumers clamor for more than just DVD players to amuse occupants while in route. Luxury automobile manufacturers are already touting the size of hard drives that come with their vehicles u2013 all the better to store music, video, games and other entertainment features. If history is any lesson, security will be down on the list of development priorities for most manufacturers, making minivans and luxury autos a fat target in 2011 and beyond.u00a0u00a0  Mobile Anarchy We think there are a lot of reasons to expect that the security of mobile devices will be big news in 2011. For one thing, the adoption curve of so-called u201csmart phonesu201d that come with Internet connectivity is taking on hockey-stick like qualities. In September, market research firm IDC predicted that shipments of so-called u201cconverged mobile devicesu201d would reach 270 million units in 2010 u2013 a 55% increase over the year before, with strong growth expected again in 2011. Increasingly, those phones are being used for e-commerce. Paypal expects payments using its mobile application for Appleu2019s iOS devices to reach $700 million in 2010, up from less than $200 million in 2009. That trend will continue in 2011 and it wonu2019t be limited to Appleu2019s iOS or online payments giant Paypal. Giants like Google have been snatching up mobile payments firms, while merchants are salivating over the confluence of mobile devices, location based services and mobile payments. However, as weu2019ve reported, security often takes the back seat in the go-go world of mobile application development. SMS Trojans may be the dominant form of mobile malware, but thereu2019s ample reason to believe that attacks focused on mobile Web applications will surge ahead of device-specific attacks in 2011. Already, phishing, mobile clickjacking, drive by downloadsu00a0 and other threats have spread to popular mobile platforms like iOS and Android. We predict those trends to continue, with consumers in the crosshairs as hackers find ways to leverage mobile applications for illicit gain.  Stuxnet goes commercial Sometimes a big news story looks even bigger in retrospect. We think that will be the case with the revelations, this year, about the Stuxnet worm, a sophisticated piece of malicious code that crawled its way onto the networks of power plant and critical infrastructure providers from India to Germany in 2010. As we reported this year, the arrival of Stuxnet was a watershed in the security world. It was one of the most sophisticated pieces of malware ever publicly disclosed, containing exploits for no fewer than four previously unknown holes in Windows to infect and spread between computers on a network. It also contained the first ever known malware aimed at programmable logic controllers (PLCs), common components used in a variety of industries to control specialized equipment. The worm raised warnings about the possibility of nation-based attacks on critical infrastructure to a new level of intensity and sent security companies scrambling for experts who understood the working of SCADA and industrial control systems. Stuxnet is widely believed to have been created to disrupt or disable Iranu2019s uranium enrichment program. But, as Dennis Fisher reported, the politics that may or may not have motivated the creation and release of the worm are beside the point. What Stuxnet proved is that critical infrastructure u2013 even closely guarded critical infrastructure u2013 is vulnerable to attack and compromise. Such facilities provide a rich target for cybercriminals interested in extortion, data theft or mercenary activities on the part of a state-backed or commercial entity. Stuxnet may not have had a clear commercial purpose, itu2019s reasonable to assume that in 2011, weu2019ll see evidence that the bad guys were paying attention and have found a way to leverage Stuxnet for commercial purposes, or create a new piece of malware purpose-built for compromise of critical infrastructure, data theft, denial of service and more. Alas, thereu2019s no Band Aid fix for the holes and insecurity that Stuxnet exposed. Critical infrastructure providers have long turned a blind eye to the kinds of IT security dilemmas that enterprises were forced to confront in the last decade u2013 adopting an approach of u201csecurity through obscurityu201d that has been proven woefully inadequate. At the same time, security vendors have focused on the large and lucrative market for LAN and WAN based PCs rather than the smaller and specialized market for industrial control software. The next year may be one that shows governments, critical infrastructure providers and the private sector wrestling with possible solutions, even as Stuxnet-inspired threats proliferate.  Social insecurity in the Spotlight As we reported recently, social networking giant Facebooknended an eventful 2010 by revising its vulnerability disclosure policy tonshield researchers from lawsuits stemming from their discoveries. Thatu2019s ansmall step forward that puts the company on an even footing with its rivalsnGoogle and Mozilla as well as software vendors like Microsoft. Expect to seenmore steps like that from Mr. Zuckerberg, as well as his compatriots at firmsnlike Twitter, Groupon, LinkedIn and more. For one thing, Facebook, Google andnothers have been buffeted by new reports in recent months that have blown thenwhistle on lax data privacy and application security standards that may havenleaked personal data to advertisers and other unauthorized individuals. 2010 also saw large scale attacks and malware spreading at both Facebook and Twitter.nFacebooku2019s first full time malware researcher said that threats will mount asnusers increasingly leverage the massive social network for commercialntransactions and more, diverse kinds of information sharing.nIn 2011, expect to see the relative importance of Web application security and socialnnetworking increase, as Web threats continue their stratospheric rise threats like phishing, spam and malware increasinglynleverage social networks while Web application providers struggle to managengrowth, feature development, data privacy and application security. Itu2019s antoxic brew that we expect to reach a boil in the next calendar year, promptingnemployers to take a closer look at employee use of Web applications andninstituting basic filtering and policies to help stem attacks and preventncritical data.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c2c6cefc42b00294112" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "SCADA Vendors Still Need Security Wake Up Call", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/scada-vendors-still-need-security-wake-call-102410/74603/", "Date" : "October 24, 2010 , 4:39 pm", "Article" : "Companies that make supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) and industrial control software are still dangerously lax when it comes to application security and vulnerable to attack, according to a researcher from security firm Tenable Inc. who warned thatu00a0the use of coded administrative u201cbackdooru201d passwords of the type used by the Stuxnet worm isnu2019t uncommon.u00a0 Speaking at the ToorCon Security Conference in San Diego, Jeremy Brown, a vulnerability researcher at security firm Tenable said that many SCADA software vendors lag far behind other IT firms in vulnerability research and lack even a basic awareness of modern security principles.u00a0Despite the recent, high profile Stuxnet worm, which made headlines around the world by targeting Siemens industrial control system (ICS) software used in power plants and other critical infrastructure, SCADA vendors are not receptive to vulnerability reports from security researchers and often lack the internal processes to properly handle and address vulnerabilities discovered by outside researchers, Brown said.u00a0 In a world of near constant scrutiny of high profile operating systems and applications and real time security updates, the world of SCADA and ICS software still operates largely on assumptions made decades ago: that SCADA and ICS systems arenu2019t of interest to malicious hackers, and that SCADA systems are isolated from the public Internet and, therefore, safe.u00a0u201cSecurity is more often an add-on rather than a core component of SCADA systems,u201d Brown said. u201cThese are systems that are designed for long term deployments, in which software updates often require hardware updates.u201du00a0 As an example, Brown related a recent experience trying to report a remotely exploitable, stack based buffer overflow vulnerability in the BACNet building automation software by the firm SCADA Engine. That software, which runs on a variety of Windows platforms, is used to control heating, cooling, lighting and security systems in large buildings. After notifying the vendor and e-mailing a copy of his findings to the security contact at the firm, Brown found himself having to explain the concept and implications of the remotely exploitable vulnerability to an unreceptive audience.u00a0 u201cPlease donu2019t waste my time,u201d was the response Brown received from SCADA Systems, he said in his presentations. That led to a public disclosure of the hole and an alert from ICS_CERT, the Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team, which was published on September 21. The hole was fixed by SCADA Engine within days of that alert, Brown said.u00a0 That experience isnu2019t unusual, Brown said, noting the work of researchers like Kevin Finisterre of SNOSoft, which has also tried to raise the alarm about SCADA security vulnerabilities with industry players.u00a0 Despite the flood of attention that the Stuxnet worm brought to the issue of SCADA security, lax practices are still common, including the use of hard coded credentials u2013 a glaring security hole that was exploited by Stuxnet. Brown said that he has discovered another such hole in software by a well-known SCADA vendor, though he declined to discuss the hole in much detail.u00a0Brown warned that holes in SCADA systems arenu2019t hard to come by. He has developed a prototype of a Metasploit-style framework, dubbed SploitWare, for testing a number of zero day holes he has discovered in SCADA software. A similar tool may already have been developed by parties interested in compromising critical infrastructure, including nation-state sponsored hackers and criminal groups interested in extortion.u00a0 SCADA vendors need to assume that their software is accessible from the Internet u2013 if not directly, then indirectly. With SCADA security smarts in short supply, the industry also needs to educate itself on the art of software security assessment and follow the lead of consumer and enterprise software vendors by devoting resources into testing their software for vulnerabilities before it is released, Brown said.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c326cefc42b0029411b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "From Brain to Stuxnet: Mikko Hyponnen on Malware and Security Preparedness", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/brain-stuxnet-mikko-hyponnen-malware-and-security-preparedness-072711/75480/", "Date" : "July 27, 2011 , 3:17 pm", "Article" : "  Computer viruses have been a problem for 25 years now, and in honor of that dubious milestone, Mikko Hyponnen of F-Secure spoke at the TED Global conference in Scotland recently about the evolution of malware and how itu2019s turned into a tool for cybercrime. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c346cefc42b00294121" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "How I Taught the Senate To Hack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/how-i-taught-senate-hack-072611/75477/", "Date" : "July 26, 2011 , 7:28 pm", "Article" : "What happens when 20-something Beltway wonks put down their Blackberries and start getting real about hacking? Chris Wysopal can tell you. The security expert and former L0pht member is just back from D.C., where he took on the job of teaching Senate staffers on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee about SQL injection, spear phishing and more. In an exclusive interview, Wysopal, the co-founder of application security testing firm Veracode, said that Congressmen and women u00a0u2013 and their staff too often turn to vendors to help understand the context of news stories about sensational attacks against the U.S. government or private firms. Too often, the information they get in return is skewed in ways that help promote the technologies those vendors sell. Its more important than ever, Wysopal says, for our elected representatives and their staff to grasp the technical details of computer security issues u2013 the better to help them sort out competing messages from vendors, lobbyists and other interested parties.u00a0 With that goal in mind, Wysopal accepted an invitation on July 21st to speak before the Senateu2019s Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee and help explain how, exactly, one carries out the kinds of hacks that are making headlines. It wasnu2019t Wysopalu2019s first time before Congress. The 40-something computer security expert, using the handle u201cWeld,u201d sat before the very same Senate committee thirteen years before, as a member of the hacker collective known as L0pht to talk about the problem of weak computer security in government. (And arenu2019t we glad they got that one nailed down?!)  This time around, Weldu2019s charge was somewhat different: teach, donu2019t just talk, and help the 50 or so staff members assembled to understand how hackers and their attacks really work. u00a0In an exclusive interview with Threatpost, Wysopal talked about his experience teaching the Senate how to hack.u00a0 Threatpost: OK, so how did you come to be the one to teach the Senate how to hack?u00a0 Chris Wysopal: Well, Veracode has a federal sales office down in D.C. and we have a few federal customers u2013 the FDA and some other agencies. Besides, weu2019re an In-Q-Tel (funded) company. As it turned out, our federal sales person was asked by someone on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee if we could do a u2018Hacking 101u2019 type course for Senate Staffers. Actually, its funny, because that was the same Committee that I testified before for the LOpht.u00a0Some of the committee members were even the same. Threatpost: And? What were your impressions?u00a0 Wysopal: It was refreshing to me. These committees get a lot of people coming in from Symantec and McAfee and telling them what they think the solutions are. This was a chance to take a step back and to try to understand the problem before they look at what all the companies are saying the solution is, so that was refreshing. I thought to myself u2018This is great.u2019 Iu2019d like to see some intelligent legislation come out of the Senate. If I can show these people how these attacks work from a vendor-neutral perspective, I thought that was a great opportunity.u00a0 Threatpost: So who were these folks you were talking to? Was this a room full of 23 year olds?u00a0 Wysopal: Most of them were pretty young. Some of them were lawyers, because this is D.C., so youu2019ve got a lot of people who are starting out in their career and theyu2019re in their late 20s. But, yeah, there were some younger people. I was the only one talking about how attacks work. My thinking was: if you donu2019t understand how attacks work, how can you understand the protection? Better security people know that u2013 they can talk about solutions, but also about attacks. But a lot of conversation, especially from auditors, is about compensating controls and what you can put in place to address attacks.u00a0 Threatpost: So what did you show them?u00a0 Wysopal: I wanted to show them what every hacker has in his bag of tricks and how easy they are. I really wanted to demystify this, so that they realize that you donu2019t have to be an u00fcberu00a0hacker who spent years developing sophisticated techniques and tools. Most of these people download the tools and read a few text files and theyu2019re ready to go. With that in mind, I started out with some common definitions u2013 vulnerabilities versus exploits, which often get confused. So I explained how vulnerabilities were latent u2013 they just sit there in the code u2013 and that exploits take advantage of them. Then we went through the hacker methodology, which is: hackers donu2019t hack at random. They generally have a target or a particular victim and the challenge is to find a vulnerability you can exploit, or they have an exploit for a vulnerability, and the target is anyone with that vulnerability. Its usually one or the other, but it also could be the intersection of the two. So, for example, a hacker might say u201cIu2019m going to hack companies that have credit card information,u201d and then look for a vulnerability within that population u2013 say: open wifi networks or remote access software thatu2019s misconfigured. So I talked to them about how, in general, hackers have a plan like that and that theyu2019re both targeted and opportunistic.u00a0 Threatpost: Right. And we see that even with hacktivists u2013 people are inclined to try to connect the dots between their targets, but many of them are opportunistic.u00a0 Wysopal: Thatu2019s right. LulzSec might have a target list that is government agencies and associated entities. Then they look for SQL injection vulnerabilities within that population. When they find it, they exploit it and make fun of that organization.I also do this to point out that having vulnerabilities that are exposed is a big factor here. Letu2019s not forget that. Its rare that an attacker will pull out all the stops. In general, youu2019re going to get targeted because you have a targeted vulnerability. If au00a0vulnerability isnu2019tu00a0there, typically, you move on. In my presentation, I gave an example of targeted attacks, including the ultimate targeted attack, which was Stuxnet. Thatu2019s a case where they had a precise target in mind and used precise vulnerabilities to target their victim. RSA was the other. Those attackers wanted to get information about RSA tokens and there was only one place to get that information, so weu2019ll target that. Threatpost: Tell us what the actual demonstrations were like?  Wysopal: First I talked about where the attack tools and information about talk about where the attacking tools and information about vulnerabilities come from. I talked about how Web sites, mailing lists and open source projects can have a dual use: theyu2019re used by defenders and by attackers. I used one tool specifically: W3AF, which stands for the Web Application Attack and Audit Framework. Its a free, easy to use tool to scan Web sites for SQL injection vulnerabilities. We talked about how to find (SQL injection vulnerabilities) in web sites, and how attackers take advantage of all the stuff defenders are publishing.I demonstrated a spear phishing attack, and talked about how a lot of the high profile corporate attacks start with spear phishing. So we talked about how those work, how the RSA attack worked and the Google (Aurora) attacks worked. u00a0 Threatpost: What was the reaction to that?u00a0 Wysopal: It was interesting. One guy asked me what legitimate use these tools have u2013 that maybe we should just outlaw them. I talked about how the people who write software should use these tools to find vulnerabilities in their own code. The problem isnu2019t that the tools exist, its that the defenders arenu2019t using them.u00a0 I also wanted to make clear that you might get a lot of people who say u2018all i need to do is run AV (antivirus software) or a Web or e-mail gateway thatu2019s looking for malware.u2019 I wanted to show them why thatu2019s not going to happen u2013 that the people behind these attacks are good at coming up with variations of their malware that wonu2019t be detected.u00a0 For the Web application attack, I was running a Web server on a virtual machine. I ran the Web scanner and showed how to exploit (a vulnerability) and use it to dump data using the W3AF tool. I showed how easy it was to start up a tool, pick the OWASP Top 10 Audit, plug in a URL and hit go. It started scrolling and found a SQL injection hole. W3AF has an exploit model and it will try different permutations of those until it gets something better than u201cyou have a SQL error.u201d I took a bit of typical malicious SQL code and fed it into the Web application and was able to dump all the user names. The idea was to image running this against an ecommerce or ebanking Web site and getting all the users of that application. I think they got that.u00a0 Threatpost: what kinds of issues did you get a sense that they were wrestling with?u00a0 Wysopal: Well, It was important to me that they not walk away wanting to outlaw hacking tools. I think these folks are hearing from a lot of software vendors who are saying u2018weu2019ve got a new type of AV that can detect everything.u201d I think they have a lot of solutions thrown at them: better firewalls, better encryption and better antivirus. But none of them will work. Firewalls wonu2019t work because you ultimately want your employees to go on the Internet or you want folks on the outside to get into your applications. Encryption wonu2019t solve the problem because, at some level, you need data in the clear in order to use it. I got the impression that they were looking for new solutions. But I wanted to come with a new story, which was u2018Letu2019s take another look at the problem.u2019 Threatpost: Did you leave encouraged?u00a0 Wysopal: I did. There were about fifty people there. They were, on average, in their late twenties. When I looked up, nobody was on their Blackberry or iPhone. They were all paying attention. I think I got through with one thing that I always try to communicate, which is that, yes you need layered protections like AV and IDS and firewall. Thatu2019s all well and good, but that you need to look at the problem and not listen to vendors who are trying to sell you a product. Its the software, stupid. There are vulnerabilities in the software that need to be fixed. This is the one thing Iu2019ve been working on for the past 10 years: which is how people can write better software. I think I got through to them that some of this (hacking) stuff is really easy to do.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c466cefc42b0029413e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Microsoft Closes Door on Stuxnet with December Patch", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-closes-door-stuxnet-december-patch-121410/74775/", "Date" : "December 14, 2010 , 8:51 pm", "Article" : "Microsoft released its monthly patch Tuesday bulletins fixing more than 40 vulnerabilities in a variety of products including Microsoft Windows, Internet Explorer and Sharepoint Server. The release, the companyu2019s final monthly patch of 2010, brings the total number of security fixes to 106 u2013 the highest total ever for the company.  Microsoft said that two of the 17 vulnerabilities were rated critical u2013 its highest severity rating. Another 14 were rated u201cImportant.u201du00a0 An expert at Kaspersky Lab said that one of those holes, affecting Internet Explorer, is being actively exploited by malware in the wild. Among other things, Microsoft said that it has patched the last vulnerability exploited by the much-publicized Stuxnet worm: a privilege escalation hole in the Windows Task Scheduler. Among the most important fixes were MS10-090 and MS10-092, both rated critical. The MS10-090 bulletin fixes a hole in Internet Explorer that could allow attackers to run remote code on systems using vulnerable versions of the software. The vulnerability affects Internet Explorer version 6, 7 and 8 running on most supported versions of Windows and Windows Server.  u201cWe see exploit code attacking this vulnerability hosted by a very low number of sites,u201d said Kurt Baumgartner, a Senior Security Researcher at Kaspersky Lab Americas. u201cThe exploit itself is reliable and spreading an autorun- and file-infecting Sality downloader,u201d he wrote. The Sality variant downloads malware, mangles the OS and disables SafeBoot, he said. u201cThe infection can be a real chore to clean.u201dAlso on security expertsu2019 radar is MS10-091, a critical flaw affecting most supported versions of Windows. The flaw impacts Windows OpenType Font (OTF) Driver and could allow network-based attacks in which malicious OpenType fonts are hosted on a network share. When users load the font, the vulnerability would allow them to take control of the affected system.  Baumgartner also called attention to MS10-102, which is rated u201cImportantu201d but fixes what he calls a u201cnightmare scenario flawu201d in Hyper-V that could allow code running with administrative privileges within a guest operating system to break out of the matrix and run at SYSTEM privilege on the host operating system. u201cThe flawed code could have been a real problem for hosted service data centers,u201d he said. Finally, Microsoft closed the door on the Stuxnet attacks with MS10-092, a vulnerability in the WIndows Task Scheduler that could be used to allow an attacker who had logged on to a vulnerable system with user privileges to elevate those privileges. That vulnerability, rated u201cImportantu201d by Microsoft, was initially discovered and reported by researchers at Kaspersky Lab and affects versions of Windows Vista, Windows Server 2008 and 2008 R2, as well as Windows 7.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c506cefc42b00294152" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "USB Drives Remain Major Security Threat", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/usb-drives-remain-major-security-threat-090110/74412/", "Date" : "September 1, 2010 , 7:15 pm", "Article" : "The recent admission by a top Department of Defense official that a classified network was compromised in 2008 through an infected USB drive has brought the spotlight back onto the myriad threats that these portable devices pose to corporate networks. The security community has been wary of USB drives for some time now, with some IT departments going so far as to permanently disable the USB ports on usersu2019 machines. And the Pentagon famously ordered a complete ban of the devices a couple of years ago because of an unspecified security incident. Now we know that incident was the compromise of a classified network by a USB drive containing malware. The extraordinary public admission of this fact by the Pentagon last week raised a number of questions, among them the question of whether the potential dangers of USB drives outweigh the benefits.  For some, the answer to that may well be yes, as DarkReadingu2019s Rob Lemos points out.   nWhile many companies worry about the software-based securitynvulnerabilities present in their networks and systems, far fewer havenlocked down their systems against devices that can be used to steal datan or infect the network from behind the perimeter. Earlier this year, forn example, a variant of an attack program known as Stuxnetn used USB u2014 and other methods u2014 to spread among power companies,nstealing information on the configuration of their sensitive operationaln networks.n USB drives have a lot to offer both in terms of convenience and huge storage capacity. But they also represent a serious threat, especially for uneducated users who donu2019t understand the ways in which they can be used to spread malicious code and siphon off valuable data. Read DarkReadingu2019s full story.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c536cefc42b00294157" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Report: Iran Resorts to Rip And Replace To Kill Off Stuxnet", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/report-iran-resorts-rip-and-replace-kill-stuxnet-072211/75465/", "Date" : "July 22, 2011 , 6:25 pm", "Article" : "Reports that Iran had recovered from the infection of the Stuxnet worm may have been overblown, as a new report suggests the country is being forced to replace thousands of expensive centrifuges damaged by the worm.u00a0 The report from the Web site DEBKAfile cites u201cintelligence sourcesu201d in claiming that Stuxnet was not purged from Iranu2019s nuclear sites and that the country was never able to return its uranium enrichment operation to u201cnormal operation.u201d Instead, the country has said in recent days that it is installing newer and faster centrifuges at its nuclear plants and intends to speed up the uranium enrichment process, according to the countryu2019s foreign ministry.u00a0 Iran was believed to have 8,700 centrifuges in operation at the countryu2019s Natanz facility the time the Stuxnet worm was released, which is believed to be around June, 2009. A recent report from Wiredu2019s ThreatLevel blog cites International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) officials who inspected the plant in January 2010 as saying up to a quarter of those centrifuges were disabled at that point, just months after the worm was released, and a full six months before it would be publicly identified by researchers at the Belarussian antivirus firm VirusBlokAda.u00a0 A report from the Institute for Science and International Security (PDF), dating from February, 2011, as well as contemporary news reports at the time that assessed the damage caused to Iranu2019s uranium enrichment program to be limited. Debkafile, citing Western intelligence sources, reports that Iran failed to eradicate the worm, which resurfaced and began spreading within the Iranian facilities, prompting the government to replace an estimated 5,000 working centrifuges.u00a0 Stuxnet is widely believed to have been created specifically to disable Iranu2019s nuclear enrichment facilities, possibly with the involvement of the U.S. and Israel. The worm was among the most sophisticated pieces of malware ever discovered in the wild. However, experts also note that Stuxnet wasnu2019t perfect and, in fact, that its authors made several, basic errors that may have prevented it from being discovered at all.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c576cefc42b0029415e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Easily Exploitable Bugs Becoming a Precious Commodity", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/easily-exploitable-bugs-becoming-precious-commodity-090110/74410/", "Date" : "September 1, 2010 , 3:41 pm", "Article" : "There has never been more focus on security than there is right now, whether itu2019s from software vendors looking to eliminate flaws in their products, from attackers looking to exploit those flaws or from customers who are sick of having their PCs compromised. And as the focus has intensified in recent months, researchers say that, for a variety of reasons, it has become increasingly difficult to find exploitable client-side bugsu2013particularly memory-corruption flawsu2013leading them to dig deeper and find more exotic bugs. To find evidence of this trend, you need look no further than the DLL-hijacking flaw, the recent LNK bug and even the iPhone bugs used in the Jailbreakme.com incident. None of them was a simple, cleanly exploitable flaw, and in the case of the Jailbreakme.com flaws, involved chaining together several bugs in order to break out of the iPhoneu2019s sandbox, escalate privileges and run code. This is not how it used to be. For most of the last decade, server-side bugs were the holy grail for both attackers and security researchers. Everyone was interested in finding remotely exploitable vulnerabilities in Web servers, database servers and other back-end systems. This was in the heyday of network worms such as Code Red, SQL Slammer and Nimda, all of which were high on the annoyance scale but didnu2019t do much in the way of actual damage. None of these worms was designed to steal data or install keyloggers or rootkits that could stay behind for months or years. But the latter part of the 2000s saw the rise of professional crews of attackers who are focused solely on making money from their activities, and they have almost no interest in server-side bugs. The whole game for them is compromising endpoints full of valuable data, and that means finding and exploiting client-side flaws that get them into machines on their target network. In the course of the last five years or so, this reality has helped draw the attention of security researchers and the internal security teams at vendors, who have combined to identify and fix an untold number of these bugs.  With more people looking and more awareness of the problem of software security, many of the more common buffer overflows and other memory-corruption bugs are being found and fixed before applications are released. And when those bugs do slip through now, there are exploit mitigations such as ASLR and DEP in place in many cases that limit the potential damage from a successful exploit. All of this is making the job of finding exploitable bugs more challenging than ever, researchers say. u201cItu2019s unclear why itu2019s harder to find exploitable bugs now. But itu2019s harder than it was. Weu2019ve moved to client sides and now people have moved on to other things like [Adobe] Reader,u201d said Charlie Miller, principal security analyst at Independent Security Evaluators, known for his research on Mac OS X and iPhone bugs. u201cIt used to be that if you found ten bugs, nine of them would be exploitable. It seems like every year itu2019s getting harder to write exploits. It keeps getting harder, and now you end up with something that involves Java plus a DLL plus something else. Everything is unserialized now.u201d Two recent examples have underscored the idea that researchersu2013and attackersu2013are having to dig deeper to find exploitable flaws. The first is the discovery earlier this year of the LNK vulnerability in Windows that enables malicious code to run directly from a USB drive or WebDAV share without any user interaction. The bug was unknown publicly until researchers discovered a new piece of malware called Stuxnet that was exploiting it. The flaw involved the way that the Windows shell handles shortcut icons, and not only was a worm exploiting it, but the worm was in the wild for some time before researchers noticed it and dug into the problem. The LNK bug is a prime example of the kind of flaw that isnu2019t likely to be found by fuzzers, scanners or other tools designed to eliminate bugs during development and pre-release testing, experts say. u201cWeu2019re seeing a progression away from the traditional memory corruption vulnerabilities and towards more logic-oriented vulnerabilities. Logic bugs often result from insecure design decisions (eg. loading DLLs from the same directory as an opened file) that can be exploited by an attacker as opposed to one-off mistakes that allow out-of-bounds memory corruption,u201d said Jon Oberheide, a security researcher and co-founder of startup Scio Security. u201cLogic bugs are interesting since they flip the discovery/exploitation equation around.u00a0 Memory corruption bugs may be easier to find with our modern vuln-disco tools but can be very difficult to reliably exploit, while logic bugs tend to be more difficult to discover with automated tools yet their exploitation is usually trivial and simple in nature.u201d The second example is the DLL-hijacking bug that has garnered so much attention of late. Researchersu2013and Microsoftu2013have known about this class of vulnerabilities for more than 10 years, but was thought to be of limited use and only exploitable locally. However, research done by HD Moore of the Metasploit Project and Rapid7, and others showed that not only could the bug be exploited remotely, but that dozens of applications are vulnerable to the problem.  The DLL bug is an OS-level problem that does not seem to have an easy fix, experts say. And it seems likely that there are more of these vulnerabilities on the horizon, as both researchers and attackers continue to dig deeper into the applications, browser plug-ins and mobile operating systems that are at the heart of todayu2019s computing environments.  The good news in all of this is the fact that exploit mitigations, software-security efforts and other factors are not just making life more difficult for researchers, but are also raising the bar for attackers looking for exploitable bugs. As a result, the attackers and malware authors are putting more of their effort into scams such as scareware and phishing that rely not on bugs, but the inexhaustible supply of gullible users. u201cMy theory is that developing reliable exploits is becoming difficult enough that malware authors get more ROI on social-engineering based malware such as rogue anti-virus scams. Vulnerabilities used to be much easier to turn into reliable exploits, whereas now it often takes considerable effort and even then, success is not guaranteed,u201d said Dino Dai Zovi, and independent security researcher. u201cThis is largely due to the proliferation of exploit mitigation mechanisms in consumer operating systems. Now, attackers must often combine the vulnerability with advanced mitigation bypass techniques in order to produce a reliable exploit.u201d Some of the credit for making the process of finding exploitable bugs more difficult must go to vendors such as Microsoft, Adobe and Google that have made an effort in the last few years to add technologies to help prevent exploitation. Mitigations such as DEP and ASLR, which are designed to prevent exploitation of memory-corruption bugs, have made a difference in the exploitability of browser-based flaws. And the addition of a sandbox to Google Chrome and Adobe Reader has had a similar effect, making it more difficult for attackers to use these applications as jumping-off points for further attacks. u201cIt is encouraging to see that some vendors are wising up to stop playing the vulnerability whack-a-mole game and are focusing on that last factor: protection mechanisms that try to maintain integrity in presence of bugs: Adobe with Reader Protected Mode, Microsoft with Office Protected Mode, Google with Chromeu2019s sandbox, etc.,u201d Oberheide said. u201cItu2019s a combination of a number of factors across all levels of software security: better development procedures (SDL), hardened toolchains (FORTIFY_SOURCE, RELRO, PIE, stack cookies), better tools for vuln-disco (fuzzers), platform-level mechanisms that impede exploitation (DEP, ASLR), and least-privilege mechanisms that reduce the impact of exploitation (sandboxing).u201d But, as Miller points out, exploit-prevention is by no means a solved problem. u201cIt used to be easier, but now itu2019s some super-complex thing you have to use to exploit a bug,u201d he said. u201cBut the thing is that thereu2019s always someone smart enough to do it.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c5e6cefc42b0029416b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "MS Patch Tuesday Heads-Up: 17 Bulletins, 40 Vulnerabilities", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ms-patch-tuesday-heads-17-bulletins-40-vulnerabilities-120910/74757/", "Date" : "December 9, 2010 , 8:02 pm", "Article" : "Microsoft is planning another massive Patch Tuesday this month:  17 bulletins with fixes for 40 security vulnerabilities. The December batch of patches will cover security holes in Microsoft Windows, Office, Internet Explorer, SharePoint and Exchange, according to an advance notice posted Thursday.n Of the 17, Microsoft said two bulletins will be rated u201ccritical,u201d the companyu2019s highest severity rating.  Of the remainder, 14 will be rated u201cimportant.u201d All versions of the Windows operating system are affected, including the newest Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2. Microsoft said it will also patch the last of the vulnerabilities used in the infamous Stuxnet malware attack.   The last outstanding Stuxnet bug is a elevation of privilege flaw in the Windows Task Scheduler.  Exploit code for this vulnerability is public and works against systems running Windows Vista, Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008. A separate vulnerability in the Internet Explorer browser will also be addressed this month (see advisory).n nThis monthu2019s updates will bring the total bulletins for this year to 106, the most ever. The MSRC blog offers an explanation for this: This is partly due to vulnerability reports in Microsoft products increasing slightly, as indicated by our latest Security Intelligence Report. This isnu2019t really surprising when you think about product life cycles and the nature of vulnerability research. Microsoft supports products for up to ten years. (One of our most popular operating systems from the turn of the century, XP SP2, reached its end-of-support life in mid-2010, in fact.) Vulnerability research methodologies, on the other hand, change and improve constantly. Older products meeting newer attack methods, coupled with overall growth in the vulnerability marketplace, result in more vulnerability reports. Meanwhile, the percentage of vulnerabilities reported to us cooperatively continues to remain high at around 80 percent; in other words, for most vulnerabilities weu2019re able to release a comprehensive security update before the issue is broadly known. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c5f6cefc42b0029416c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Week in Review: Patch Overload and Confronting Mobile Malware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/week-review-patch-overload-and-confronting-mobile-malware-101510/74576/", "Date" : "October 15, 2010 , 2:47 pm", "Article" : "Patches u2013 and plenty of them u2013 took center stage this weeknas two big software companies shipped substantial updates. Some alarming newsnalso broke regarding the growing number of botnets operating out of the U.S. u00a0Read on for the full week in review. Microsoftu2019snband of patches, pushed Tuesday, sent out 16 updates, fixing 49 vulnerabilities.nAmong those addressed: Flaws in Internet Explorer on XP through Windows 7 alongsidentweaks for SharePoint and Microsoftu2019s.NET Framework. Additionally, MS010-073, anhole in win32k.sy that was previouslynexploited by the relentless Stuxnet was patched. In addition to patches, Microsoftnreleased a new tool this week u2013 the SDL Regex Fuzzer u2013 in hopes ofnidentifying bad code that could expose programs to harm. Limiting attacks thatnguzzle up memory and more importantly, money, are the focus of this new fuzzer,nnow available in the companyu2019s Download Center. And, if your IT staff didnu2019t have its hands full withnMicrosoftu2019s patch storm, software giant Oracle decided to pile on top: issuingnupdates for its Java software on Tuesday, including fixes for 29 bugs, somenwhich allowed attackers to remotely control infected machines, were fixed innJava SE and Java for Business. On the subject of threats and attacks, we had some soberingnstats were released about botnets on Wednesday. According to a report putnout by Microsoft, the U.S. is now the home of more bot-infected computers thannany other country, nearly four times as many as Brazil. This, despite thenpublicized takedown of two prominent botnets in recent months: u00a0Pushdonand Waledac.nu00a0There was a 100% increase from 2009nbetween January and June, when Microsoft cleaned 6.5 million computers. Whilensome of these massive botnets may be waning, the number of infected computersncontinues to rise. With mobile phone security becoming a new battlefield fornmalware, some companies are stepping up their game. Early HTC G2 adopters cannattest after discoveringnlast week their rooted phones had reverted to their original settingsnfollowing a restart. It remains to be seen if HTCu2019s actions will become a newntrend but Dennisntook the point on Thursday, detailing the wants vs. needs of each side. Of course, it wouldnu2019t be a week in security these days ifnthere wasnu2019t news on Stuxnet. Earliernthis week, the European Network and Information Security Agency warned thenEuropean Union about the complications of the virus. Citing itsnsophistication, ENISA called the buzzed worm a u201cparadigm shift,u201d alerting itncould be a sign of malware to come. Whatu2019d you find interesting this week? Do you agree withnENISA, will Stuxnet change the tides of security? What about smart phonentechnology? Will more cell phone manufacturers modify their phones to preventnattacks? " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c646cefc42b00294177" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "The Evolution of Malware: From Viruses to Stuxnet", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/evolution-malware-viruses-stuxnet-120910/74755/", "Date" : "December 9, 2010 , 4:32 pm", "Article" : " In the latest edition of the Lab Matters video series, Ryan Naraine talks with Eugene Kaspersky about the state of the malicious Web and the evolution of malware from viruses to worms to botnets to Stuxnet and beyond. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c676cefc42b0029417b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "TDL4 Rootkit Now Using Stuxnet Bug", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/tdl4-rootkit-now-using-stuxnet-bug-120710/74746/", "Date" : "December 7, 2010 , 7:00 pm", "Article" : "The TDL4 rootkit, which reared its head last month as the latest evolution of the venerable TDSS malware family, is now using one of the Windows bugs that was first seen in use by Stuxnet. The latest modification to TDL4 enables the rootkit to use the unpatched Windows Task Scheduler vulnerability on Windows 7 machines to escalate its privileges once it is resident on an infected PC, according to an analysis of the malware by Kaspersky Lab analyst Sergey Golovanov. TDL4 has been active for some time now, but recent samples of the malware have turned up with an exploit for the Task Scheduler bug. u201cUsing an exploit for this vulnerability allows the rootkit TDL4 toninstall itself on the system without any notification from the UACnsecurity tools. UAC is enabled by default in all the latest versions ofnWindows,u201d Golovanov said in his analysis. u201cAfter the Trojan launches in the system, e.g. in Windows 7, itsnprocess receives the filtered token (UAC in operation) with the regularnuser privileges. An attempt to inject into the print spooler processnterminates with an error (ERROR_ACCESS_DENIED). u201c[The] error occurs when TDL4 attempts to intrude into print spooler process. Earlier modifications of this malicious program also try to penetraten the print spooler process. New modifications, however, attempt to usenthe 0-day exploit to escalate its privileges up to LocalSystem level.u201d This bug is one of four vulnerabilities that was first noticed during the initial analysis of what would come to be known as Stuxnet. The vulnerability is not a remote code-execution bug, but can be used to escalate an attackeru2019s privileges once heu2019s already gotten a foothold on a compromised machine. Exploit code for the Windows Task Scheduler bug was posted late last month.  TDL4 is the newest evolution of the TDSS malware, and it contains functionality that enables it to get around some of the low-level security defenses that Microsoft has added to recent versions of Windows.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c6c6cefc42b00294186" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "EU Agency Says Stuxnet Portends Future Sophisticated Attacks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/eu-agency-says-stuxnet-portends-future-sophisticated-attacks-101210/74567/", "Date" : "October 12, 2010 , 2:25 pm", "Article" : "The European agency responsible for protecting the critical infrastructure of EU countries is warning its member states that the Stuxnet attack represents a major change in the malware landscape and that they should be prepared for further attacks with the same level of sophistication and professionalism. The European Network and Information Security Agency has told the members of the European Union that Stuxnet should not be viewed as a one-off targeted attack, but instead should be seen as a sign of things to come in malware.  u201cStuxnet is really a paradigm shift, as Stuxnet is a new class and dimension of malware. Not only for its complexity and sophistication, e.g. by the combination of exploiting four different vulnerabilities in Windows, and by using two stolen certificates, and from there attacking complex Siemens SCADA systems. The attackers have invested a substantial amount of time and money to build such a complex attack tool,u201d said Udo Helmbrecht, executive director of ENISA. u201cThe fact that perpetrators activated such an attack tool, can be considered as the u201cfirst strikeu201d, i.e. one of the first organized, well prepared attack against major industrial resources. This has tremendous effect on how to protect national (CIIP) in the future.u201d ENISA is the rough equivalent of the technical directorate of the Department of Homeland Security for all of the EU. In contrast to ENISAu2019s warning, there have been no public warnings to industry or government agencies from the DHS about Stuxnet. However, there has been a lot of conversation within the security community and among security researchers about the significance and sophistication of Stuxnet, and what that means for the evolution of malware and the usefulness of current defenses.  Some experts have said that, regardless of what the actual target of Stuxnet was and who its creator is, the emergence of the malware is in and of itself a significant event in the use of offensive security capabilities. u201cI will state categorically that I think that Stuxnet should settle thendebate about the possibility of weaponized software; someone clearlynhas the ability to gather the intelligence and build the softwarennecessary to achieve military goals.  Whether or not this is suchnan incident is a separate issue; the capability demonstrably exists,u201d Steven Bellowin of Columbia University wrote in a blog post analyzing Stuxnetu2019s significance. u201cThe ability to do precision targeting is quite intriguing.  One concern aboutncyberwar is the potential for damage to civilian infrastructure, which isnagainstninternational law.nStuxnet shows that (under the right circumstances) attacks can be very carefullyndirected.  That, to my knowledge, had not been anticipated in writings on thensubject.u201d ENISA, in its warning to EU states, contemplates more attacks in the vein of Stuxnet as attackers analyze the malware and learn from both its success and its failures. u201cAfter Stuxnet, the currently prevailing philosophies on CIIP will have to be reconsidered. They should be developed to withstand these new types of sophisticated attack methods,u201d Helmbrecht said. u201cNow, that Stuxnet and its implemented principles have become public, we may see more of these kinds of attacks. All security actors will thus have to be working more closely together and develop better and more coordinated strategies.u201d  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c6d6cefc42b00294188" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "This Week In Security: Stuxnet Redux, Gmail Security and a Monster Patch Tuesday", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/week-security-stuxnet-redux-gmail-security-and-monster-patch-tuesday-100810/74564/", "Date" : "October 8, 2010 , 5:11 pm", "Article" : "The Stuxnet buzz continued this week, Adobe took a few steps toward better security and Microsoft announced plans for its largest Patch Tuesday ever. But it wasnu2019t just Microsoft, Adobe and everyoneu2019s favorite worm grabbing headlines. Read on for the full week in review.Not going away anytime soon; Stuxnet continued to pervade the news this week. On Monday, an editorial took a step back and examined the story so far, looking at the roots of the attack and potential targets. While the virusu2019 alleged ties to Iran and Israel have certainly been well publicized, thatu2019s only one potentially valid explanation for it.  After all, on Tuesday we discovered Iran is no longer the virusu2019 hot spot u2013 a title that now belongs to India and some parts of Indonesia. Thatu2019s what a slice of data released by Kaspersky Labu2019s September report suggests. Regardless, the debate on the wormu2019s intended target will continue to rage on, it seems.  As a new month began, details came late this week on Microsoftu2019s impending Patch Tuesday. The batch of patches, scheduled for release on Oct. 12, will be the companyu2019s largest, with 16 bulletins addressing 49 security vulnerabilities. Four of the 16 vulnerabilities are rated critical, the companyu2019s highest severity rating. The start of October also meant it was time for Adobeu2019s quarterly patch update. In the huge update, 23 vulnerabilities were patched on Tuesday, a full week earlier than theyu2019d originally planned. The update fixed previously critical issues in Reader and Acrobat, some which had been exploited for up to two months. The software company also produced some good news on Wednesday by divulging new details about their upcoming version of Reader, its sandboxing feature called Protected Mode. Initially announced back in July, Protected Mode was described by Adobeu2019s Kyle Randolph as being able to lessen the effect of bugs in the application. Microsoft floated a new security proposal this week, outlining a plan wherein computers would all receive u201chealth certificatesu201d in order to access the Internet. Almost like a public health model for security, the idea is meantu00a0 to prevent infected PCs from spreading malware and becoming parts of botnets by stopping infected machines from accessing the Internet. There were also stories this week that touched on keeping your e-mail safe, particularly if you use Googleu2019s tremendously popular Gmail. In a guest column early this week, Caleb Sima of Armorize gave some hints on how to keep your Gmail secure. As changing the password doesnu2019t always work u2013 Sima also recommended paying attention to filters, password recovery settings and rogue applications. As the week wound down, Google, which has been fighting an uphill battle lately, released a checklist of their own in hopes of keeping users safe. Google lays out 18 steps that users can take to help lock down their Gmail accounts, ranging from changing passwords frequently to using the forced-SSL option to checking for outdated or insecure browser add-ons and plug-ins. What caught your interest this week?  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c716cefc42b00294190" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Security Firms Scramble For SCADA Talent After Stuxnet", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/security-firms-scramble-scada-talent-after-stuxnet-100710/74562/", "Date" : "October 8, 2010 , 3:49 am", "Article" : "Three months after the world first learned of the sophisticated Stuxnet worm, insiders say that thereu2019s a scramble to find and hire engineers with knowledge of both security and the industrial control systems that were Stuxnetu2019s intended target.u00a0 Anti virus companies admit their research teams were ill prepared for Stuxnet and are still coming up to speed on the functioning of Siemens industrial control systems and programmable logic controllers that Stuxnet infected. At the same time, the companies are searching high and low for technical talent with knowledge of the kinds of systems that run power plants, factories and industrial machinery u2014 preparing for a future in which malicious hackers increasingly put critical infrastructure and an Internet of things in the cross hairs.u00a0 Speaking at the Virus Bulletin Conference in Vancouver last week, Symantec researcher Liam Ou2019Murchu said he and his colleagues had to teach themselves about both the Siemens SIMATIC programmable logic controllers targeted by Stuxnet worked in order to understand what it was the virus was doing.u00a0 Reverse engineering new threats is nothing new for virus researchers, Ou2019Murchu said, but Stuxnetu2019s focus on SCADA systems exposed a missing area of expertise on Symantecu2019s research staff, which is accustomed to analyzing malicious software designed to infect desktop computers, servers as well as mobile devices.u00a0 u201cWe realize we need new knowledge, but not new skills,u201d Ou2019 Murchu said. u201cIts not like Stuxnet changes how AV researchers work, but new fields of expertise are needed. This is an area weu2019re not well equipped for.u201du00a0 Symantec and other anti malware research labs process hundreds of thousands of unique malware a month, but the analysis of Stuxnet is three months old u2013 and counting, he said.u00a0 Stuxnet has set off a rush for engineering expertise that spans industrial control and automation systems and security, experts interviewed by Threatpost agree. The list of interested parties includes major anti malware and security software firms, as well as critical infrastructure firms and OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) that create the components that power power plants, refineries, water treatment plants and other critical infrastructure.u00a0 u201cIu2019ve ran across a ton of people who talk the talk, but canu2019t walk the walk,u201d wrote a manager of product security at a major anti malware firm who asked not to be named because he had not been given permission to speak with the press.u00a0 Engineers capable of programming PLCs and with a deep, technical understanding large scale SCADA networks are now in hot demand by security firm u2013 even those without a firm grounding in computer security.u00a0 u201cThereu2019s definitely a shortage of people with the skills to understand security and process control and automation,u201d said Walter Sikora, Vice President of Security Solutions at Industrial Defender, Inc., a firm based in Foxborough, Massachusetts. Sikorau2019s firm hires industrial control and automation engineers that act as security-focused consultants. It has been deluged with requests since Stuxnet was first identified in July from firms in the chemical, manufacturing, water, pipeline and power generation, as well as systems vendors, he said. If nothing else, Stuxnet proved that, as a practical matter, the worlds of PC security and critical infrastructure security are now overlapping and comingled u2013 not separate.u00a0 u201cThereu2019s no security in obscurity with Windows,u201d said Costin Raiu, Director of Global Research at Kaspersky Lab.u00a0u201cPeople are asking u2018Why would you run nuclear reactors on Windows?u2019 The answer is that theyu2019re not running on Windows directly, but Windows PCs are, at some point, connected to the programmable logic controllers (that run the nuclear reactors). So weu2019ve got this complex Windows/machinery hybrid.u201du00a0 However, in the marketplace, the worlds of traditional network computing and industrial control systems areas are still separate.u00a0 u201cThereu2019s just not a lot of intersection between the security and the SCADA folks. You have folks who do network operations and understand how to do policy and operational security, and then youu2019ve got the types of people who design SCADA networks, and the two just donu2019t hang out that much,u201d said the manager of product security.u00a0 Thatu2019s likely to change in the coming months and years, as u00a0security firms look for top engineering talent with experience working on industrial control and automation systems and as the companies that make the machinery and the software that run those systems wrestle with how to create applications that are more resilient to attack and compromise.u00a0 The lack of security readiness came to light early on in the Stuxnet saga, when it was revealed that the worm targeted a hard-coded password in the WinCC SCADA software u2013 a serious breach of secure coding practice. Siemens pain was compounded when the company had to admit that it could not change or disable the password without adversely affecting the WinCC systems.u00a0 u201cItu2019s like having a very valuable house with the door wide open,u201d said Raiu. u201cFrom the financial point of view, security companies realize thereu2019s a good opportunity here and will be looking for experts, but the right way to handle the situation is to get Siemens and other firms like it to fix the underlying bugs,u201d he said.u00a0 Thatu2019s a position that has been echoed recently by the top security officer th e North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), who was quoted in a published report saying that the industry needs better and more secure development practices that produce more reliant applications. However, experts like Sikora at Industrial Defender caution against expecting too much overlap u2013 critical infrastructure verticals are still highly specialized, and the expertise needed to write applications for, say, energy generation canu2019t readily be transferred to water or chemical manufacturing, he notes. The systems and applications used in each vertical also differ from vendor to vendor. Still, Sikora and others agree that Stuxnet was a turning point, demonstrating the need for industrial control and automation vendors to pay more attention to application security and resilience as well as protection against external threats that are now very real.u00a0 u201cStuxnet shows that its nou00a0longer just a Windows, Apple or Adobe thing. It can happen u2013u00a0its been shown. Now all those things we didnu2019t want tou00a0have to do on control systems we have to do and thereu2019s a lot of work to be done,u201d Sikora said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c786cefc42b0029419b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Microsoft Plans Record-Breaking Patch Tuesday", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-plans-record-breaking-patch-tuesday-100710/74560/", "Date" : "October 7, 2010 , 6:43 pm", "Article" : "This monthu2019s batch of security patches from Microsoft will be a record-breaking one:  16 bulletins addressing a whopping 49 security vulnerabilities.   According to the companyu2019s advance notice, four of the 16 bulletins will be rated u201ccritical,u201d Microsoftu2019s highest severity rating.   Microsoft rates a critical vulnerability as one that could be exploited to propagate an Internet worm without user action.n The 49 vulnerabilities will mark the largest ever batch of patches issued by Microsoft.  The previous record was 34 vulnerabilities patched in August this year. The October patch batch will include fixes for security flaws in the Windows operating system, the Internet Explorer browser, Microsoft Office and the .NET Framework. It is very likely that Microsoft will include patches for a pair of elevation of privilege vulnerabilities that were exploited during the mysterious Stuxnet worm attack. The flaws in this monthu2019s release affect all version of Windows, including the newest Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c826cefc42b002941aa" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Wired Unpacks Stuxnet Mystery", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/wired-unpacks-stuxnet-mystery-071211/75415/", "Date" : "July 12, 2011 , 3:15 pm", "Article" : "You might think that everything that needs to be written on Stuxnet already has. After all, Threatpost has spilled (virtual) column inches on the stealthy worm, which targeted Siemens Simatic S7 programmable logic controllers. Thatu2019s in addition to posts by the likes of Symantec, McAfee and the mainstream media. But thereu2019s still a story behind the story that hasnu2019t been toldu2026.until now.  Wired.comu2019s Kim Zetter is taking a swing at telling the inside story behind the discovery and analysis of Stuxnet in a major, new feature on Threatlevel, Wiredu2019s security blog. Zetter, a seasoned reporter who provided some of the best contemporaneous coverage of the Stuxnet outbreak, rolls the timeline back: looking at the earliest evidence of an outbreak u2013 a suspiciously high number of disabled centrifuges at Iranu2019s Natanz nuclear plant, to the discovery of the virus by virus researcheru00a0Sergey Ulasen at Belarusian AV firmu00a0VirusBlokAda and the subsequent technical analysis of the worm by firms such as Symantec. Along the way, Zetter speaks to pretty much every major researcher who rolled up his sleeves on Stuxnet: Liam Ou2019Murchu, Nicolas Falliere and Eric Chien at Symantec, German researcher Ralph Langer and others.  If you think you know everything there is to know about Stuxnet, Zetteru2019s piece is still worth a read. Check it out.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c866cefc42b002941ae" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "More Secure Software Needed for Utilities, NERC CSO Says", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/more-secure-software-needed-utilities-nerc-cso-says-100710/74557/", "Date" : "October 7, 2010 , 3:18 pm", "Article" : "It took a malware attack with an unprecedented level of sophistication to make it happen, but officials in charge of the security of much of the countryu2019s electrical grid have come ot the conclusion that there is a need for more secure software and better security processes and procedures to prevent future attacks in the vein of Stuxnet. Although the Stuxnet worm apparently didnu2019t infect any of the electric utilities in the United States, the top security official at the North American Electric Reliability Corporation said in an interview with SearchSecurity.com that there is a clear need for not just better procedures to respond to serious attacks on critical systems, but better software-development practices to produce more resilient applications. Mark Weatherford, the CSO of NERC, which helps oversee reliability for much of the U.S. electrical grid, said that Stuxnet demonstrated a need for more secure products for critical applications in the power industry. u201cThis is not an indictment on [the] control system industry; itu2019s annindictment on the IT business in general,u201d Weatherford told SearchSecurityu2019s Rob Westervelt. u201cWeu2019renstill seeing products that come out that are susceptible tonvulnerabilities that quite frankly have been in the wild for quite somentime.u00a0 u201cCompanies who develop products and write code need to continue tonmature their development processes to become more secure,u201d he said.  Weatherford said the the Stuxnet attack served as a warning bell, spurring the creation of a so-called Tiger Team at NERC to respond rapidly to serious attacks and malware threats in the future. Most large enterprises and government agencies have similar incident-response teams that are pulled together to handle emerging attacks. Stuxnet was the first large-scale attack to go after industrial-control systems, but given the huge reliance of most countries on computerized control systems in their utilities, it certainly will not be the last. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c936cefc42b002941c3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Siemens Warns of Password Vulnerability in SCADA Software", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/siemens-warns-password-vulnerability-scada-software-070811/75409/", "Date" : "July 8, 2011 , 5:38 pm", "Article" : "Siemens AG issued an advisory to customers on Tuesday warning of a weakness in its Simatic S7 programmable logic controllers that could allow a remote attacker to intercept and decipher passwords, or change the configuration of the devices.u00a0 Siemens advised customers to restrict physical and logical access to its Simatic Industrial Automation products. The company warned that attackers with access to the product or the control system link could decipher the productu2019s password and potentially make unauthorized changes to the Simatic product. The warning is just the latest security scare affecting the popular Siemens Simatic programmable logic controllers, which were the target of the Stuxnet worm.u00a0 Siemens issued a alert on its Product SUpport Web page on Tuesday, July 5, saying that it had found a u201cpotential security weaknessu201d affecting the programming and configuration client software authentication mechanism used by the Simatic family of controller platforms, including the S7-200, 300, 400 and S7-1200 systems. While the vulnerability is not described, Siemens said that it could be used to carry out so called u201crecord and replayu201d attacks, where specific commands are captured in transit, and then resent to devices in an uncontrolled manner.u00a0 The company said it is working on a fix for the affected software modules. In the meantime, it advised customers to take a number of steps to mitigate damage from the security hole. Among those steps: restricting physical and logical access to automation products and the systems and networks they run on to authorized personnel, using layered security to limit access to Simatic systems and blocking traffic to affected devices from outside the trusted Manufacturing Zone.u00a0 This is just the latest in a string of revelations about the security shortcomings of Siemens SCADA and industrial control systems. The Stuxnet worm shone a light on vulnerabilities in the Siemens software, including a hard-coded administrative back door account that the worm exploited. In recent months, Siemens has come under fire for taking too long to fix many of the vulnerabilities in its products that Stuxnet leveraged. Security researcher Dillon Beresford of NSS Labs also revealed a wide range of other security holes in Siemens Simatic software that could have enabled a remote take down of industrial systems that are managed by Simatic software. The company promptly patched those holes. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365c966cefc42b002941c8" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Data Shows Iran No Longer A Stuxnet Hotspot", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/data-shows-iran-no-longer-stuxnet-hotspot-100510/74550/", "Date" : "October 5, 2010 , 8:47 pm", "Article" : "Kaspersky Lab released its malware statistics report for September. Buried among the data on the top malware detected on usersu2019 machines and being pushed from malicious Web sites is an interesting factoid: Iran no longer ranks as a Stuxnet hotspot, while India continues to struggle with the effects of the sophisticated virus. The data, compiled from systems running Kasperskyu2019s security software, isnu2019t authoritative and represents just a slice of infected systems in the countries in question. However, it suggests that Stuxnet u2013 a sophisticated virus that is believed to have been a targeted attack against Iranu2019s uranium enrichment facilities u2013 is no longer prevalent in that country. India, which has registered the most Stuxnet infections, continues to struggle to eradicate the virus, Kasperskyu2019s data suggests. Weu2019ve been hearing for a while that Iran was taking aggressive steps to contain the Stuxnet virus. India has been the epicenter of Stuxnet infections since it was first detected, with Iran the country with the third most infections. The number of reported infections in Iran has steadily decreased during that time. Kaspersky Lab researcher Aleks Gostev wrote on September 26 that Iran was doing a good job cleaning systems infected by the virus. He predicted, then, that the country would soon cease to be one of the centers of the epidemic. Data from Kasperskyu2019s September report appears to confirm that prediction. Speaking at the Virus Bulletin Conference in Vancouver last week, researcher Liam Ou2019Murchu from Symantecu00a0mostly agreed with reports that Stuxnet was targeted at Iranu2019s nuclear enrichment facilities and that it was the creation of Israeli intelligence. But researchers, including those from Kaspersky Lab, have also been quick to point out that the exact objectives of those who designed and released the virus are still unknown and mostly a matter of conjecture.  And, for each of the Stuxnet theories, thereu2019s convincing evidence both pro and con, as a recent article on news.com points out. In the end, Iran could have been the target u2013 or just collateral damage. And, as Kasperskyu2019s data from September suggest, the brunt of Stuxnet infections is being felt in India and Indonesia, as well as other developing countries such as Russia and Afghanistan, rather than Iran.u00a0 As Threatpostu2019s Dennis Fisher makes clear in his recent editorial, debate about Stuxnetu2019s intended target is largely academic. The virus Stuxnet was a kind of Pandorau2019s Box: unleashing a storm of new era of sophisticated SCADA-aware malware into the public domain and broadening the scope and ambitions of malware writers beyond Windows servers and desktops to include critical infrastructure of all kinds. That, more than any geopolitical consideration, is likely to be the legacy of Stuxnet. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ca66cefc42b002941e1" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Rethinking Stuxnet", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/rethinking-stuxnet-100410/74546/", "Date" : "October 4, 2010 , 9:11 pm", "Article" : "Itu2019s hard to think of a story in the last few years that has generated more hype, conjecture, posturing, hyperbole and misdirection than Stuxnet, with the possible exception of the Aurora attacks. The commentary and hype around Stuxnet has shifted and morphed over the last few months, and now it seems to have coalesced around the idea that the malware was the work of Israeli intelligence and targeted specifically at Iranu2019s nuclear program. But this line of thinking fits together all too easily and has a number of inherent flaws. Stuxnet is a fascinating piece of malware on a number of different levels, even without taking into account the possible nation-level involvement in the attack. The malware itself is, by all accounts, highly sophisticated, both in terms of its design and the systems that it targets. Everyone knows by now that Stuxnet had exploits for several bugs that were previously unknown (or at least not known very widely), including one in a Siemens software package that is used in industrial control systems.  The combination of these factors, as well as some circumstantial evidence such as the high number of Stuxnet infections in Iran and clues in Stuxnetu2019s code, have led many to conclude that the worm was the brainchild of programmers in Israel and was specifically designed to cripple Iranu2019s nuclear program. What the sophistication of Stuxnet shows is a level of professionalism and seriousness that normally is attributed to governments and their intelligence agencies. They have the motive, the means and the opportunity to create a piece of malware of the magnitude of Stuxnet and pinning this on the government of Israel is perhaps a logical conclusion, given some of the evidence. Thereu2019s a hidden reference in the wormu2019s code to a date on which an Iranian Jew was executed, as well as some vague Biblical connections. Iran and Israel have a hostile, complicated history, and Israel also is thought to have elite offensive information security capabilities. And Iran had a huge number of Stuxnet infections, including at its Bushehr nuclear plant, which Israel presumably has a vested interest in damaging. Add that all together and you get a seemingly solid case for Israel having unleashed Stuxnet on Iran. But when you remove the politically and religiously charged aspects of the discussion, this storyline begins to fall apart a bit. The politics, in fact, are mostly beside the point. Change the names of Stuxnetu2019s alleged target and creator from Iran and Israel to Company A and Hacking Crew B, and very little of the current narrative makes sense.  First, for the sake of this discussion, letu2019s stipulate that Stuxnet is the work of a professional, well-funded group of skilled developers. If thatu2019s so, then the first question we need to ask is, what was their motive? The answer right now is that no one knows. People working under the assumption that the Bushehr plant was Stuxnetu2019s intended target work backward from there and make the secondary assumption that the motive was to disrupt the plantu2019s operations and/or steal some confidential data about the way the plant works. That leads to questions of who would want to attack the Bushehr plant, and that leads to Israel. The problem here is that we donu2019t know for sure that Bushehr was the actual target. Machines in the plant were infected, but so were machines in more than a dozen other industrial plants running the vulnerable Siemens software, as well as thousands of Windows machines around the world. Bushehr was one infection point, but itu2019s virtually impossible to know for sure whether it was the main target and everything else was collateral damage. Given our stipulation above about the creators of Stuxnet, it would serve absolutely no purpose for the malwareu2019s creators to leave any kind of clue behind that might link the worm back to them. There doesnu2019t seem to be any sort of mechanism in Stuxnet that points to it being designed to make money, so if the worm truly was meant to attack a nuclear plant, its creators would have every reason to hide their own fingerprints. These are not amateurs looking for fame and props from their peers. Intel agencies are in the business of keeping their activities as quiet and unobtrusive as possible. In that world, noisy is bad. There are no clear benefits that would accrue to Stuxnetu2019s creators if they made it easy for people to identify them. In fact, there are some major deterrents, including possible retaliation from the target.  On the other hand, the Israel-Iran story is a very easy one for people to process. It makes sense on a lot of levels and itu2019s much more comfortable than any of the alternatives. There are a number of other countries that have no desire to see Iran bring a nuclear plant on lineu2013including the United States, the U.K. and their allies. And there are likely plenty of professional attackers with the skills to create Stuxnet, perhaps with their eye on an entirely different target.  Unless Stuxnetu2019s creator steps forward, weu2019ll likely never know for certain. But weu2019re also likely to see many more incidents like Stuxnet in the coming years, and they wonu2019t all fit into a cookie-cutter narrative. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ca96cefc42b002941e6" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Week in Review: Stuxnet Redux and The Wireu2019s D.C. Edition", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/week-review-stuxnet-redux-and-wires-dc-edition-100110/74542/", "Date" : "October 1, 2010 , 3:29 pm", "Article" : "Stuxnet Redux and ThenWire: United States Governments, the Internet and security were the theme as Internet wiretapping, trans national cyber laws and the furthernproliferation of Stuxnet u2013 a computer virus believed to have state backing u2013 topped this weeku2019s news.  After more than a week of intense speculation about the origins of the mysterious Stuxnet virus, which was first identified in July, u00a0then20thVirus Bulletin conference being held in Vancouver this week, brought still more information about the worm into the daylight. Presentations from Microsoft,nKaspersky Lab and Symantec researchers revealed key details about the functioning of the worm and its possible origins. In a highly anticipated talk, Liam Ou2019 Murchu, of Symantec, dissected Stuxnetu2019s unique ability to control programmable logic controllers from Siemens Inc. and to show how Stuxnet might be programmed to cause machinery to run out of control, or even self destruct.u00a0 From the nationu2019s capital camennews that the Obama administration was pursuing a bill that would requirenalternative communication services to give law enforcement access to customeru2019snmessages. Dennisntook the point on Wednesday and discussed how dangerous itu2019d be tonpurposely insert security weaknesses in programs just to help the government.nNational security is one thing, but crafting easily exploitable holes could be trouble Some holes, however, were patched. On Tuesday, Microsoftnreleased its second out-of-band patch in recent memory. This time around,nthe patch addressed Septemberu2019s ASP.NET debacle. The flaw in Microsoftu2019s frameworknwas first discussed at Argentinau2019s Ekoparty two weeks back. As successful of a story as the Mariposa botnet takedown hasnbeen, the persecution of those involved may not be as easy. Accordingnto news from Virus Bulletin, despite being arrested late last year, Spainu2019snnot-so-stringent laws could make it difficult to hold the botnetu2019s operators. Despitenevidence against the group, itu2019s not known whether or not itu2019ll be admissible. Unlike Mariposa, some steps forward were taken with individualsnbehind the popular Zeus botnet this week. 70npeople from the U.S. and 20 from the U.K. were charged for being connected tonthe malware campaign. Those who were charged in New York were said to be responsiblenfor stealing $860,000 from 34 different consumer and corporate account s. Speaking of Zeus, on Monday researchers discovered anvariant of the malware that plagues online banking customers via mobile phones.nDisguised as a u201cNokia update,u201d the attack focuses on Blackberry and Symbian-basednphones and (surprise!) uses a stolen digital certificate to evade securitynsystems. Suchnhas been the case lately for stealthy viruses, as Stuxnet uses not one butntwo stolen certificates. While one certainly wonders how these certificatesnhave been obtained, itu2019s even more puzzling as to how well future users will benable to further scrutinize their legitimacy.  What caught your eye this week? ChrisnEngu2019s piece on fixing XSS vulnerabilities got some love early this week, asndid anstory about hackers from online prank site 4chan rallying against the Motion Picture Association ofnAmerica (MPAA) and the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365cb66cefc42b002941f5" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Researcher Demonstrates Stuxnet At Work", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/researcher-demonstrates-stuxnet-work-093010/74539/", "Date" : "October 1, 2010 , 12:52 am", "Article" : "We know Stuxnet has caused some major disruptions in nations like Iran and India. But how, exactly, does it work? In this video, Symantec researcher Liam Ou2019Murchu demonstrates how a Stuxnet infected programmable logic controller (PLC) by Siemens can instruct a piece of machinery to run out of control.  Ou2019Murchu demonstrated the proof of concept by hooking the PLC up to an air pump which was programmed to lightly inflate a balloon. After being infected, the pump runs out of control, bursting the confetti filled balloon to applause from the audience of virus researchers gathered at the annual Virus Bulletin conference in Vancouver, Canada.   " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365cba6cefc42b002941fc" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet Analysis Supports Iran-Israel Connections", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stuxnet-analysis-supports-iran-israel-connections-093010/74538/", "Date" : "September 30, 2010 , 11:54 pm", "Article" : "VANCOUVER u2013 A Symantec researcher filled in more critical details about the Stuxnet worm here, demonstrating the wormu2019s ability to take control of programmable logic controllers (PLCs) by Siemens Inc. and disable machinery connected to them.  Liam Ou2019Murchu of Symantec, speaking at the Virus Bulletin Conference here,u00a0 provided the first detailed public analysis of the wormu2019s inner workings to an audience of some of the worldu2019s top computer virus experts. Ou2019Murchu described a sophisticated and highly targeted virus and demonstrated a proof of concept exploit that showed how the virus could cause machines using infected PLCs to run out of control.  Ou2019Murchu said that Symantec analysts were able to reverse engineer the virusu2019s code and now understand exactly what Stuxnet does. However, without understanding what types of machinery the targeted logic controllers were connected to, it is impossible to know what harm the worm caused on infected industrial control systems u2013 if any.  u201cWe know what Stuxnet does on PLCs, but not the u201creal world effects of this code,u201d he said.  The worm used a novel method to compromise the PLCs, with the first ever root kit program designed to control PLCs. Ou2019Murchu told attendees that Stuxnet was highly targeted, looking for systems using a specific type of network adapter card by Profibus and connected to specific models of programmable logic controllers, Siemens model S7-300 and S7-400 devices. The virus also compromised specialized software known as Step 7 to program the PLC for specific tasks, inserting a rootkit to intercept and modify instructions sent to and from the PLC.  The result for victims would be to secretly program PLCs, but denyntheir owners the ability to know what code was really running inside then devices, he said. To demonstrate the real world impact of that loss ofncontrol, O Murch demonstrated the infection of an S7-300 PLC devicenconnected to an airpump. Using the Step 7 software, he programmed thenpump to run for three seconds, gently inflating a balloon attached to then pump. Ou2019Murchu then demonstrated how a Stuxnet infected PLC wouldninstruct the pump to run, instead, for 140 seconds, quickly bursting then balloon.   u201cIf this PLC was connected to an oil pipeline, you can see that the result would be much worse,u201d he said.  Speculation about the Stuxnet work has grown rampant in the last week, as everyone from computer security experts to political scientists to divinity experts have weighed in on details of the worm, which was first identified in July. The story burst into the popular media after security and industrial control experts u2013 looking at the capabilities and infection statistics from the Stuxnet worm u2014 suggested that it may have been au00a0 targeted attack aimed at Iranu2019s nuclear enrichment facilities, and each day has brought new revelations about the impact of the worm and its possible origins.  Recent discussions have focused on Israel as a possible source of the virus, given its sophistication and in Israelu2019s stated interest in disrupting Iranu2019s development of a nuclear weapon and clues in the malware itself, including a reference to Myrtus, the biblical character of Miriam.  Though most of the conversation about Stuxnet is still based on conjecture, Ou2019Murchu said that Symantecu2019s analysis of Stuxnetu2019s code for manipulating PLCs on industrial control systems by Siemens backs up both the speculation that Iran was the intended target and that Israel was the possible source of the virus. As for Iran, Ou2019Murchu merely pointed to Symantec data that show the country was the source of the most Stuxnet infections. Iran has since blocked communications to Stuxnetu2019s command and control infrastructure, he said.  As for suggestions that Israeli intelligence may have authored the virus, Ou2019Murchu noted that researchers had uncovered the reference to an obscure date in the wormu2019s code,u00a0 May 9, 1979, which, he noted, was the date on which a prominent Iranian Jew, Habib Elghanian, who was executed by the new Islamic government shortly after the revolution.  Anti virus experts said Ou2019Murchuu2019s hypothesis about the origins of the virus were plausible, though some continue to wonder how the authors of such a sophisticated piece of malware allowed it to break into the wild and attract attention.  u201cIt should have been more successful and stayed offu00a0 the radar,u201d saidu00a0 Ivan Macalintal, a virus researcher at Trend Micro.u00a0 The virus is a u201cgame changing eventu201d for the anti malware industry, he said u2013 expanding the scope of virus analysis into the political realm and beyond the purview of systems running the Windows operating system.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365cc16cefc42b00294204" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet Media Storm Now Feeding SEO Attacks?", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stuxnet-media-storm-now-feeding-seo-attacks-093010/74537/", "Date" : "September 30, 2010 , 9:45 pm", "Article" : "How do you know when a computer virus has officially jumped the fence to become a media sensation? Probably when scammers start using popular interest in it as bait for their own malware.u00a0 So it is with the Stuxnet worm, which was identified in July, but has become the focus of intense media scrutiny since speculation aired that the computer worm was actually designed to take out Iranian nuclear facilities. According to a blog post by Trend Micro, researcher Ivan Macalintal has found evidence of SEO attacks that play off of interest in Stuxnet, with results for searches like u201cStuxnet SCADA,u201d u201cStuxnet cleanupu201d and u201cStuxnet Siemensu201d leading Web surfers to drive by download sites that exploit known vulnerabilities in Windows Help Center and Java, as well as to sites pushing malicious Adobe PDF and Flash files to victimsu2019 computers and ultimately installs noxious fake antivirus software, Trend writes.u00a0 This isnu2019t the first time that online scammers have traded on popular interest in someone elseu2019s malware to push their own malware. Trend notes that concern about the Conficker worm was used by spammers pushing fake antivirus software, as well.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365cc16cefc42b00294203" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Web-Based Malware Doubles from 2009, Likely to Persist in 2011", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/web-based-malware-doubles-2009-likely-persist-2011-112410/74706/", "Date" : "November 24, 2010 , 2:49 pm", "Article" : "Thereu2019s been a significant uptick in Web-based malware, withninfections nearly double those from this time last year, and predictions are that Web based attacks will get worse beforenthey get better. In their Q3 Malware Update, security firm Dasient estimated there werenover 1.5 million malicious advertisements a day dished out to unsuspecting users. Thenlength of these campaigns spanned 11.1 days on average, suggesting attackers havenbeen fairly successful with this medium. Internet threat protection company M86 reached similar conclusions in their 2011 predictions, (.PDF) warning of refined attacks around HTML5 and the surgingnbattlefield revolving mobile attacks. Though the HTML5 specification is still a work in progress, adoption is picking up speed, driven by firms like Google who see the update to the Webu2019s lingua franca as an open and standards-based alternative to proprietary technologies like Adobe Flash and Microsoftu2019s Air. But HTML5 brings new security concerns along with its new features.u00a0 Both firms cautioned against the continued use of stolen digitalncertificates to bypass security measures as well, citing the nefarious Stuxnetnworm which targeted industrial systems in July. Dasient also predicts a shiftnto more fully-realized cyber warfare, with a focus on government web sites: u201cWhile Stuxnet propagated via USB sticks, one can imaginenthat an efficient way to infect critical, government-run infrastructure wouldnbe to infect government web sites, which government employees access more oftennthan casual visitors,u201d the company said in its report. Drive-by-downloads and scareware willncontinue ravaging sites like Facebook and Twitter, the companies agreed. The firms referenced Koobfaceu2019snrecent proliferation across Facebook u00a0andnSeptemberu2019s Twitter XSS attacks.  While websites are likely to ensnare the crux of attacks inn2011, attackers will continue to find new ways to propagate their malware,nensuring some of these trends will carry on. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365cc76cefc42b0029420d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "NY Times: Stuxnet Traced to Five Iranian Internet Domains", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ny-times-stuxnet-traced-five-iranian-internet-domains-021411/74937/", "Date" : "February 14, 2011 , 8:28 pm", "Article" : "The Stuxnet Worm attempted to infiltrate five industrialncomplexes in Iran over a span of ten months according to a report in the New York Timesnbased on a StuxnetnDossier published by Symantec. Stuxnet was designed to not only attacknindustrial control systems built by Siemens Corporation, which is the companynthat built the control system that regulates the spinning of uraniumncentrifuges at Natanz, but also to obscure itself by sending false informationnto the control computers monitoring the system, the report found.  Symantec researchers claimnStuxnet was written with two attack modes aimed at separate centrifuge arrays,none of which appeared to have been disabled, perhaps providing an explanationnfor the wormu2019s limited effectiveness. The wormu00a0was programmed tonrecord data on the location and type of each computer it infected, which is anunique and seemingly counterproductive feature for a piece of malware. It wasnlikely coded into the virus to allow the authors to keep tabs on its progress, and it was this feature thatnallowed Symantec researchers led by Liam O Murchu to do the same. Of some 12,000ninfected machines, the researchers connected the dots and traced the worm backnto its origins in five Iranian Internet domains. Researchers have pointed out other ways in which the worm u2013 claimed by many to be the most sophisticated piece of malware ever discovered in the wild u2013 still suffered from shortcomings that allowed it to be detected.u00a0 While the report does not release thennames of the companies linked to the suspected domains because of privacynpolicy restrictions, the Times report claims they are all linked to industrialnprocessing within Iran. Researchers believe that attack wasnfirst launched via infected emails or USB thumb drives. The Natanz Facility, a center for uranium enrichment in Iran, is not believed to be directly connected to the Web. Therefore, the attacks were likelynaimed at industrial organizations that share information with the Natanznfacility in hopes that the virus would be transmitted along with any other datanthe facilities were sharing. In January, The Times reported that evidence from the outbreak supported theories that the worm was a joint US-Israeli operation to delay or disable Iranu2019s nuclear enrichment program.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365cc76cefc42b00294210" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stolen Digital Certificates Becoming Standard Malware Components", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stolen-digital-certificates-becoming-standard-malware-components-093010/74534/", "Date" : "September 30, 2010 , 3:41 pm", "Article" : "In the 15 years or so of serious malware production before 2010, there had been perhaps a handful of examples of malicious programs using digitally signed binaries to bypass antimalware systems. The emergence of Stuxnet earlier this year brought this tactic into the center of the spotlight, and now researchers say that the new mobile Zeus variant that is targeting Symbian and BlackBerry devices is following suit, using a stolen digital certificate to help cloak itself from security systems. Stuxnet has garnered a huge amount of attention in recent weeks, much of it focused on its supposed use as an offensive weapon against Iranu2019s nuclear program. The evidence supporting that supposition is circumstantial, but whatu2019s known for certain is that Stuxnet was using two stolen digital certificates: one from RealTek and one from JMicron, two Taiwanese technology companies. One of the certificates was used to sign the driver for a component of the malware and the other was used to sign a binary that was installed as part of the attack.  There are two distinct and equally serious problems that the use of stolen digital certificates by malware presents. The first is the obvious issue of how the attackers got their hands on the RealTek and JMicron certificates. Both companies have offices in the same office park in Taiwan, and there has been speculation that one malicious contractor for a cleaning company or employee of the office parku2019s management group could have stolen both certificates somehow and sold them to Stuxnetu2019s creators. Thatu2019s perhaps the simplest scenario, but there are plenty of other ways for bad guys to get their hands on certificates, whether itu2019s by stealing an employeeu2019s laptop or thumb drive or by using a sophisticated attack to impersonate the companies to a registrar and buy legitimate certificates. Whatever the case, itu2019s a serious problem thatu2019s made all the more troublesome by the fact that many antimalware products and other security applications will whitelist binaries and files that are digitally signed. These components are simply trusted and passed along in most cases. The creators of Stuxnet obviously knew this and used it to their advantage. In the wake of the Stuxnet attack, security experts said that they expected other malware authors to follow the lead of Stuxnet and begin using digial signatures to evade security software, and that prediction is already being fulfilled. Earlier this week researchers warned of the discovery of a new variant of the Zeus Trojan that is aimed specifically at mobile online banking applications. The malware is designed to bypass the two-factor authentication mechanisms that some banking applications use, tricking victims into downloading a malicious component that enables the malware to steal one-time passwords sent by the bank to the victimu2019s mobile phone. Itu2019s a clever technique, and as Jeremy Kirk of the IDG News Service reports, itu2019s aided by Zeusu2019 use of a digital certificate owned by an Azerbaijani firm. Mobile phone software has followed the lead of desktop software in trusting signed binaries, and the problem is even more pronounced on mobile platforms thanks to the way that the mobile app stores are set up. The mobile Zeus variant targets Symbian and BlackBerry devices, both of which allow users to download and install applications from essentially any source at their discretion. That obviously can be dangerous if users arenu2019t careful about where theyu2019re getting their software.  But itu2019s also a serious problem on platforms such as the iPhone that restrict users from installing apps that arenu2019t in the official App Store. Once a malicious application makes its way into the app store, itu2019s treated as a trusted piece of software and users have little way of knowing which apps are benign and which are malicious.  The increased use of stolen digital certificates is going to muddy these waters even further, placing more and more of a burden on users to try and decipher which apps and components are legit and which are aiming to steal their sensitive data. This is sub-optimal, to say the least. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365cc76cefc42b0029420f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Exploit Code For Stuxnet Windows Task Scheduler Bug Posted", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/exploit-code-stuxnet-windows-task-scheduler-bug-posted-112310/74702/", "Date" : "November 23, 2010 , 2:44 pm", "Article" : "Exploit code is now publicly available for one of the four previously undisclosed Windows vulnerabilities that the Stuxnet worm exploits. The availability of exploit code for the Windows Task Scheduler bug used by Stuxnet makes the bug somewhat more dangerous, as there is currently no patch available for the flaw. The Windows Task Scheduler exploit code was added to the Exploit Database over the weekend and is designed for use against systems running Windows Vista, Windows 7 or Windows Server 2008. The Task Scheduler bug is just one of several vulnerabilities that the Stuxnet worm uses in its attack routine. Itu2019s one of the less severe of that group of flaws, in that itu2019s only used for privilege escalation once an attacker has already compromised a machine. Microsoft has not released a patch for the Task Scheduler vulnerability as yet. The company has patched three other bugs used by Stuxnet, including the LNK flaw that was one of the things that originally brought the worm to researchersu2019 attention earlier this year.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ccc6cefc42b00294219" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet Attack Shows Signs of Nation-State Involvement, Experts Say", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stuxnet-attack-shows-signs-nation-state-involvement-experts-say-080410/74291/", "Date" : "August 4, 2010 , 1:14 pm", "Article" : "SAN FRANCISCOu2013The Stuxnet attack has been making headlines for several weeks now, thanks to the fact that includes a pair of zero-day vulnerabilities and also has drivers signed by a stolen digital certificate. However, the real story of this novel malware attack may not be its tactics but its creator, which security experts say could be a nation-state. Virtually all of the malware thatu2019s prevalent on the Internet today is designed with one goal in mind, and thatu2019s to make money for its creators. Banker Trojans, bot clients, rootkits, keyloggers, they all are meant to make money, either directly or indirectly. Some malware, such as banker Trojans and keyloggers, cut right to the chase and simply steal online banking credentials and other financial information. Others, such as bot clients, are pieces of larger puzzle in which the attackers make money either through renting slices of the botnet to other attackers or by threatening to launch DDoS attacks against a specific site unless the owner pays a fee. Attackers and malware writers have become very adept at finding new ways to make money over the years, and the risk of prosecution is very low in most cases. Thatu2019s one of the reasons that the Stuxnet malware stands out: thereu2019s no clear immediate financial gain for its creators. The Stuxnet attack is designed to be as stealthy as possible and targets mainly SCADA systems, some of the highest value machines in the world.  The attack exploits a zero-day vulnerability in the way that all currently supported versions of Windows handle LNK files and is spread initially through USB sticks. Once an infected USB drive is attached to a PC, the attack on the machine is essentially automatic and there is little indication to the user that anything bad has happened. But thatu2019s just one piece of the puzzle. Stuxnet also exploits a vulnerability in Siemensu2019 WinCC SCADA control software, which runs on industrial control systems in utilities, power plants, manufacturing facilities and other key environments.Once on the machines, the malware attempts to contact a remote server and join a botnet. Stuxnetu2019s sophistication and its lack of any real money-making component are leading experts to believe the attack is likely the work of a national government or intelligence agency. u201cThis is the most sophisticated attack that we have seen to date, by far,u201d Roel Schouwenberg, a malware researcher at Kaspersky Lab, said at the companyu2019s Virus Analyst Summit here Tuesday. u201cThe involvement of a nation-state is the most likely scenario. This is a highly advanced attack.u201d The topic of national governments and intelligence agencies being involved in offensive attacks online has been a touchy one for years, and while many security experts and analysts say that itu2019s simply a fact of life in the modern world, there has been little in the way of evidence of actual attacks.  [block:block=47] Microsoft issued an emergency patch for the LNK flaw on Monday, after reports surfaced of other existing malware families, such as Sality, beginning to exploit the flaw, as well. In addition to the USB exploitation method, the LNK flaw also can be exploited via a drive-by download. Schouwenberg, who has been researching Stuxnet for several weeks, said that although the first public reports of the malwareu2019s existence only appeared in recent weeks, he now believes the malware itself is much older.  u201cWe went back and looked at our samples and found Stuxnet samples from 2009,u201d he said. u201cNo one knows what it was doing before it became public a few weeks ago.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ccc6cefc42b00294218" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Of Night Dragons and Silver Bullets", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/night-dragons-and-silver-bullets-021111/74932/", "Date" : "February 11, 2011 , 6:58 pm", "Article" : "Reading the headlines today one could not help but notice the latest installment of u201cscary Chinese hacker pressu201d making the headlines. Andnwho can blame the news media for latching on to this story as it has allnthe right ingredients: foreign governments targeting U.S. interests,ncatchy nicknames like Night Dragon, connections to a previous scarynthreat u201cOperation Aurorau201d and a timely announcement leading up to one ofnthe security industryu2019s biggest conferences in San Francisco next week,nRSA. Wait, what? Some of you might be experiencing du00e9ju00e0 vu when you read about thisnlatest series of Chinese attacks targeting U.S. Oil and Gas companies.nYou may recall that it was in January of 2010 that news actually brokenabout the FBI investigating extensive targeted attacks that took placenagainst Oil and Gas companies during the 2008 and 2009 timeframe. Thenattacks described then are not much different than the attacks describednnow. I will leave the debate to others on whether the attacks in 2008nand 2009 are different attacks or if some security companies are justnnow getting around to shedding extra technical light on years oldnattacks. Either way, the answer would be uninteresting, but I digressu2026 Night Dragon might remind you of another series of attacks, OperationnAurora, which if you do not remember, was the series of attacks thatnbecame public around this same time last year. In the case of Aurora, itnwas a series of targeted attacks against a variety of organizations,nbut most notably against Google. The thing that made Operation Auroranunique was not the technical aspect of the attack itself, but Googlencoming forward to talk openly about the breach they suffered. In the case of Night Dragon, the attacks were of varying levels ofnsophistication. In some cases public attack tools, which have been knownnfor many years, were used by the attackers behind Night Dragon. Overnfive months ago, eEye research was monitoring conversations on annIranian message board which is hosted in the United Kingdom. On thenmessage board, hackers openly discuss the usage of one of the attackntools that was used within Night Dragon. This was of course not interesting because the attack tool is well knownnand commonly used to attack systems throughout the world. Nor is itninteresting that the discussion was taking place on an Iranian messagenboard. Attacks happen all the time to many organizations and countries.nToday even the most straightforward attacks are considered sophisticatednwhen contrasted against the outdated approach organizations andngovernments take to protect their systems. Not to mention that tracingnback the origin of an attack is far from an exact science and one thatnallows for attackers to easily manipulate the attribution of whom isnbehind an attack. Another example of how old and known components of Night Dragon arenis in the case of the malware components that were being embedded onnsystems. Anti-virus companies have been detecting these malwarencomponents for more than 5-6 months, most of which have been protectingngenerically for these classes of malware long before that. This isnanother stark contrast to Operation Aurora, which even after Google wentnpublic, was still lacking detection by most anti-virus companies. Morenimportantly, the fact that so many components within the Night Dragonnattacks are publicly available and known in hacking circles, it makes itneven harder to really say with any authority which attacks were relatednor not. This is again very different than the extremely targeted andncustomized nature of Operation Aurora or even more so Stuxnet. There are however things similar about Operation Aurora and NightnDragon. Both of them made their big splash in the beginning of the yearnonly weeks ahead of the security industryu2019s largest conference, RSA.nBoth of them also, like most attacks covered in the news, were simplynmore of the same in that they did nothing to further our dialogue onnwhat to do about these attacks but rather only serve some securityncompanyu2019s interests in product sales and continue a crippling effect onnwhat policy the United States, and other countries, might enact toncombat a most clear and present danger. You see it is not that Operation Aurora or Night Dragon are notnproblems; they very much are. But they are simply the tip of a massiveniceberg which any modern country is quickly sailing into in a way thatnmakes the Titanic disaster seem minor. Given the political deadlock innWashington at the moment, it is unlikely that we will see governmentnstep forward to solve this problem for us and in a lot of ways they arenprobably not the ones that should have to solve it. The role of government should not be to have to do the job thatncorporations should be doing themselves in trying to prevent the theftnof intellectual property, but rather to do as law enforcement and ournmilitary have done since their inception: to identify criminals andnthose who would threaten our freedom to prosper and either bring them tonjustice or draw a line in the sand of what will no longer be toleratednwithout facing retribution. If China is the aggressor that it appears to be in cyberspace, thennit is time to elevate this conversation and debate to one of substantialnaction, instead of wielding it as another weapon of fear for securitynindustry sales and budget increase requests. As the security industry gathers in San Francisco for RSA next week,nletu2019s hope we can for once shift the conversation beyond the latestnscary threat and the new silver bullet technology to solve the problem.nWe should engage in a serious conversation about what it will take at anpolicy level to make lasting improvements that impact the futurensecurity of our technology-ingrained way of life. Marc Maiffret is the CTO and co-founder of eEye Digital Security. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365cd46cefc42b00294225" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Progress Crawls in Securing Critical Infrastructure", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/progress-crawls-securing-critical-infrastructure-020911/74925/", "Date" : "February 9, 2011 , 7:28 pm", "Article" : "The US government is progressing at a snailu2019s pace innsecuring critical American infrastructure according to a Center for Strategicnand International Studies (CSIS) commissionnon cybersecurity examining the first two years of the 44th presidency. Two years ago the CSIS published SecuringnCyberspace for the 44th Presidency, recommending 25 areas tonpromote positive change. At the time, cybersecurity took a back seat to thenseemingly more pressing issues of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and thenincreasingly dire economic situation. However, that report helped to spark newnattitudes in the government and a dialogue promising that securing cyberspace,ndespite being understood as a monumental undertaking, had become a priority. Unfortunately,ntheir new report indicates that the rubber has yet to hit the road. With the advent of Stuxnet, Aurora, Wikileaks and thenensuing slew of DDoS attacks, and high profile government and private sectorndata breaches, it seems as though 2010 was the year that finally madencybersecurity an unavoidable topic, and perhaps proved that the US is reliantnupon yet incapable of securing certain networks that make up our digital infrastructure. The hurdles that stand between the US and a competent securitynstrategy are many, the necessity of a free and open Internet, the anonymousnnature of the Web, various privacy concerns, and even the commercial interestsnof Internet companies to name a few.  More alarming still is the deepening pool of Web-basednthreats. There is the somewhat traditional threat of opposing nations withnadvanced and offensive, military-funded cyberspace capabilities for which thenUS has very little defense. There are terrorists, who havenu2019t yet begun tonreally explore the limitless realm of cyberterrorism, but inevitably will. Thennthere is cybercrime, with a flourishing black market to support it, where nefariousnusers can buy the latest and best malware, bulk credit card and personalninformation, and rent botnets. This leaves us with the most threatening of all,ncyber-espionage, chiseling away at American innovations. Estimated losses fromnhigh-end security blunders are in the billions, and it all stems from weakninternet security. To this point, most solutions have been based on the smaller,npredominantly Western Internet of ten years ago and the 2003 initiative, thenNational Strategy to Secure Cyberspace. These security measures operated largelynunder the assumption that private companies would share information with eachnother and with the government to combat threats, but this has proven difficult. Since the 2008 report, the government has made somenimportant first steps, like creating a cybersecurity coordinator at the White House.nHowever, the 2010 report highlights ten areas in critical need of more rapid progress: The report isnu2019t an altogether negative one. It points to thensteamboat explosions, plane crashes, and automobile accidents that plagued thosenindustries immediately following their inception into the mainstream to illustratenthat the Internet is more or less in its infancy, and that it will take decadesnfor the necessary legislative adjustments to be made to secure our networks.  However,nthe report is adamant in its insistence that these changes need to start now,nand that the US canu2019t sit on its hands and wait for a disaster to react. The commission closes with an ultimatum, we can either continuento pursue outdated strategies to combat internet security until somencatastrophe occurs, or we can take action now with measurable and effectivenpolicies. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365cd66cefc42b00294229" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "All Eyes On Stuxnet At Annual Virus Researcher Summit", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/all-eyes-stuxnet-annual-virus-researcher-summit-092910/74528/", "Date" : "September 29, 2010 , 3:30 pm", "Article" : "The world will know more about the mysteriousu00a0Stuxnetu00a0virus by weeku2019s end, after top virus researchers u00a0reveal the findings of their post mortem onu00a0Stuxnetu00a0at the annual Virus Bulletin Conference.u00a0  Researchers from Microsoft, Kaspersky Lab and Symantec are scheduled to reveal more than has been previously known about the mysterious virus, which was first identified in July and has been spreading steadily around the world, targeting industrial control systems manufactured by Siemens.u00a0 In a joint presentation at the annual gathering, researchers from Microsoft and Kaspersky Lab will discuss the findings of a joint analysis of The Stuxnet virus, detailing how the virus leveraged unpatched and u2013 for the most part- unknown holes in MIcrosoftu2019s Windows operating system to infect and spread over computer networks.  Among the most pressing questions that experts would like to answer concern the origin of the virus, its exact purpose and how it was able to spread between the protected and isolated infrastructures of some of the worldu2019s top nuclear facilities.u00a0That will be the subject of a separate presentation by Liam Ou2019 Murchu of Symantec,u00a0one of a handful of researchers credited with discovering Stuxnetu2019s use of a vulnerability in Windows Print Spooler Service to compromise and spread between networked Windows systems.u00a0 In his presentation, Ou2019 Murcho has promised to delve into Stuxnetu2019s more remarkable characteristics: its ability to identify, compromise and control industrial control systems used by power plants and nuclear facilities. Ou2019 Murchu will reveal details of his analysis of the wormu2019s unique Trojan component affecting programmable logic controllers and provide insight into the origins of Stuxnet and its intended purpose.  Recent weeks have brought a string of sensational revelations about Stuxnet that have stoked speculation in security and political circles. Analysts long suspected that the virus, one of the most sophisticated threats ever to be publicly disclosed, was designed with a specific target or targets in mind and had nation-state backing. Subsequent analysis of outbreak data from Symantec in recent weeks turned the spotlight on Iran as a likely target and state sponsored hackers working for the U.S. or Israeli army as likely sources for u00a0Stuxnet, which may have been written to quietly disable nuclear enrichment facilities in Iran u2013 an assertion reinforced by industrial control experts and not disputed by the intelligence community. However, each week has also brought new revelations that cloud the Stuxnet picture at just the moment it seems to be coming into focus. Researchers at both Kaspersky and Symantec have publicly questioned the consensus that Iranu2019s nuclear facilities were Stuxnetu2019s clear target, citing infection data from India and other countries that rivals that of Iran.u00a0 O Murchu also noted that the Print Spooler Service hole that he and researchers from Kaspersky Lab independently discovered and reported u00a0to MIcrosoftu2019s Security Response Center had been publicly revealed almost a year earlier in the pages of Polish hacking magazine, Hackin9. O Murchu also revealed on a Symantec blog that the Windows shortcut file (LNK) vulnerability that Stuxnet used to jump from portable media devices to Windows systems was a late addition to the virus. Earlier versions of the worm had, instead, exploited the Windows AutoRun feature to infect Windows systems. That suggests that Stuxnet may have been spreading in the wild for much longer than researchers had previously believed, muddying the picture still more.u00a0 The most sought after information concern the three as-yet unpatched Windows vulnerabilities used by Stuxnet. Attendees at Virus Bulletin will be looking for any details about those holes or about other Stuxnet capabilities that are as yet unknown.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365cd76cefc42b0029422b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Microsoft Pushes Fix to Disable AutoRun", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-pushes-fix-disable-autorun-020911/74924/", "Date" : "February 9, 2011 , 7:21 pm", "Article" : "As malware authors and attackers have continued to employ the Windows AutoRun functionality to help spread their malicious creationsu2013culminating famously in the Stuxnet wormu2013Microsoft has been making gradual changes to help prevent these attacks. This week the company took the major step of putting an optional fix into Windows Update that will disable Autorun. The company made the change Tuesday on the same day that it shipped its monthly crop of patches, and said that the change is designed to bring Windows XP and other operating systems into a more secure state by makign it harder for malware to use AutoRun as a propagation method. u201cIn April 2009 we delivered a very public message to thenWindows ecosystem that we were changing the behavior of Autorun in ways thatnimproved security. We blogged on thenprogress of that transition, posting u201cAutoRunnchanges in Windows 7u201d in April 2009. In November 2009, we posted u201cAutoPlay Windows 7 behavior backportedu201d and we put out an update to do thensame for older operating systems. We made that update available from thenDownload Center. That allowed anyone who wanted the update to seek it out and downloadnit for themselves. Our partners expressed their concerns about that change, butnby and large understood the reasons for it,u201d Adam Shostack, a program manager in the Trustworthy Computing Group at Microsoft said in a blog post about the AutoRun change.n u201cOver the last few years, companies that needed the functionalitynincorporated U3 functionality into their devices. Others documented the change.u00a0 Overall, the transition hasnu2019t been simple,nbut it has worked. Today we are taking another important step to protect ourncustomers. Weu2019re putting the existing update into the Windows Update channel.u201d AutoRun is a feature in Windows that tells the operating system what to do when a new drive is attached to the computer. The functionality is most often encountered by most users with devices such as USB drives. Stuxnet used this functionality as one of its methods of infection and much older worms, such as Blaster, used it in the past. In many cases, the AutoRun feature allows malware to spread or infect a machine in the background without any user notification. Microsoft officials said that the data theyu2019ve collected and analyzed shows that although users of Windows XP and Windows 7 are exposed to malware families that utilize AutoRun as one of their infection vectors, users of the newer OS fared much better, likely thanks to the changes made to AutoRun. u201cHowever, when you look at actual infection rates (using data from thenMicrosoft Malicious Software Removal Tool and normalizing the number ofnusers per OS with the number of infection reports per OS to account forndifferences in the install base), the numbers are starkly different.nWindows XP users were nearly 10 times as likely to get infected by onenof these worms in comparison to Windows 7. Although causative proof isndifficult to quantify, it is quite possible that these figures reflect,nat least in part, the improvements made to the security of Autorun innWindows 7,u201d Holly Stewart of the Microsoft Malware Protection Center said in a blog post. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365ce96cefc42b00294249" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Microsoft to Issue Emergency Patch for Critical Windows Flaw", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-issue-emergency-patch-critical-windows-flaw-073110/74278/", "Date" : "July 31, 2010 , 4:07 am", "Article" : "Microsoft will issue an out-of-band patch on Monday for a critical vulnerability in all of the current versions of Windows. The company didnu2019t identify which flaw it will be patching, but the description of the vulnerability is a close match to the LNK flaw that attackers have been exploiting for several weeks now, most notably with the Stuxnet malware. The advance notification from Microsoft on Friday said that the company is patching a critical vulnerability that is being actively exploited in the wild and affects all supported Windows platforms. The LNK flaw in the Windows shell was first identified earlier this month when researchers discovered the Stuxnet worm spreading from infected USB drives to PCs. Stuxnet has turned out to be a rather interesting piece of malware as it not only uses the LNK zero day vulnerability to spread, but it had components that were signed using a legitimate digital certificate belonging to Realtek, a Taiwanese hardware manufacturer.  Stuxnet also includes an exploit for a previously unknown vulnerability in a popular piece of SCADA software called WinCC, manufactured by Siemens.  u201cThe bulletin addresses a security vulnerability in all supportedneditions of Windows XP, Windows Server 2003, Windows Vista, WindowsnServer 2008, Windows 7, and Windows Server 2008 R2, that is currentlynbeing exploited in malware attacks,u201d Microsoft said in its advisory.  Within a week or so of the identification of the LNK vulnerability and the emergence of Stuxnet, researchers began seeing new pieces of malware showing up that exploit the flaw. One of these was dubbed Chymine and exploited the LNK flaw and then attempted to connect to a remote server and download a keylogger.  Microsoft has been careful about using its out-of-band patching process in the past few years, but it has shown that it has the ability to push out an emergency fix within a couple of weeks when necessary. And with a number of active exploits ongoing against the LNK flaw, this looks like one of those cases.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365d116cefc42b00294285" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Zeus Botnet Using Windows LNK Flaw", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/zeus-botnet-using-windows-lnk-flaw-072810/74264/", "Date" : "July 28, 2010 , 3:07 pm", "Article" : "Isolated strains of mainstream malware that took advantage of how thenzero-day Windows flaw first exploited by the sophisticated Stuxnet wormnbegan appearing late last week. The same approach has since been appliedn by the dodgy sorts behind Zeus, a family of sophisticated toolkitsnfrequently used to steal bank login credentials and the like fromncompromised systems. Read the full article. [The Register] " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365d2c6cefc42b002942a3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "This Week in Security: Microsoftu2019s CVD Policy, Stuxnet Part Deux and Double Rainbows", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/week-security-microsofts-cvd-policy-stuxnet-part-deux-and-double-rainbows-072310/74253/", "Date" : "July 23, 2010 , 5:48 pm", "Article" : "This week brought us the rare double rainbow of a re-emergence of the disclosure discussion and major security news from Microsoft, all wrapped into one. It truly was a gift from Mother Nature. But Microsoftu2019s decision to change its disclosure stanceu2013and refusal to pay bug bountiesu2013wasnu2019t the only big news. The Stuxnet saga continued to widen and weirden, a major privacy leak cropped up in Safari and the roots of the mass SQL injection attacks were exposed. What does it all mean? Read on for the full week in review. Itu2019s been quite a while since Microsoft made any major news in the security world, but when they go, they go big, and this week was a prime example. On Thursday Microsoft announced that it was shifting to a new coordinated vulnerability disclosure policy, which, when you read all the way through it, isnu2019t necessarily that new. Itu2019s just new to Microsoft. The major change in the CVD policy is that Microsoft conceded that there may be some instances when itu2019s necessary for au00a0 researcher to release details of a vulnerability before a patch is available. u201cIfnattacks areu00a0 underway in the wild, earlier public vulnerability detailsndisclosure can occur with both the finder and vendor working together asn closely as possible to provide consistent messaging and guidance toncustomers to protect themselves,u201d said Matt Thomlinson, general manager of Microsoftu2019s Trustworthy Computing group. Thatu2019s a significant change for Microsoft, which has consistently discouraged researchers from releasing vulnerability details ahead of a patch release, and the company has sometimes publicly scolded researchers for doing so. Microsoft still clearly isnu2019t interested in seeing that happen very often, but the acknowledgement from Redmond that releasing flaw details may sometimes actually help customers is a major concession. u201cFor finders who still believe that Full Disclosure is the best way ton protect users, we respectfully disagree, but we still want to work withn you if youu2019re willing. Weu2019d encourage folks who support FD to stillncontact us, as we can then attempt to coordinate release of informationnwith protections that are available. Of course, we still donu2019t thinknthis is the best method, because the vast majority of customers willnonly be protected with an update u2013 but we believe that even this levelnof coordination is definitely better than none at all,u201d Microsoftu2019s Katie Moussouris wrote in a blog post.u00a0  But Microsoft wasnu2019t done yet. Later in the day, news broke that Microsoft would not pay bug bounties to researchers who find vulnerabilities in the companyu2019s products. Rumors had been making the rounds in the last week or so that the company would follow the actions of Mozilla and Google, who both raised their bug bounties in the last week. Researchers have been pressuring other vendors, mainly Microsoft, Adobe and Apple, to pay for bugs as well, but Redmond was having none of it. u201cWe value the researcher ecosystem, and show that in a variety of ways,nbut we donu2019t think paying a per-vuln bounty is the best way. Especiallynwhen across the researcher community the motivations arenu2019t alwaysnfinancial. It is well-known that we acknowledge researcheru2019sncontributions in our bulletins when a researcher has coordinated thenrelease of vulnerability details with the release of a security update,u201dn Microsoftu2019s Jerry Bryant said in an email. But who needs zero days anyway when you have SQL injection? Mass compromises of legitimate Web sites have been a serious problem for a couple of years now, and this week I took a look at the origins of the epidemic and found that it boils down to two relatively simple issues: really, really bad applications and a lack of quality testing of those apps. Web apps are cobbled together, using code from any number of sources and the same mistakes are repeated over and over again. u201cItu2019s a huge problem. Web app developers really donu2019t care aboutnsecurity unless itu2019s tied to their bottom line, and itu2019s not,u201d saidnJeremiah Grossman, CTO of application security firm WhiteHat Security.nu201cDevelopers who know how to write code securely donu2019t get new jobsnbecause of that skill. They do what they know how to do. Theyu2019re takingnlibraries from all kinds of different places, code is outsourced, itu2019snwritten in-house, itu2019s revamped. It really does sound like the desktopnworld 15 years ago.u201d Thatu2019s not a compliment. Also not a compliment is the body blow delivered by Grossman to the security of Appleu2019s Safari browser this week, when he identified a serious privacy leak in Safari. The weakness involves the way that Safariu2019s AutoFill feature handles input from users and helps complete words or phrases theyu2019re typing into the browser. u201cRight at the moment a Safari user visits a website, even if theyu2019vennever been there before or entered any personal information, a maliciousn website can uncover their first name, last name, work place, city,nstate, and email address,u201d Grossman explained in a blog post. This is sub-optimal, as is the response from Apple, whom Grossman said he contacted two separate times about the flaw and got nothing but one auto-response back. Heu2019ll be detailing the problem at Black Hat next week. [block:block=47] Finally, we were treated to another evolution of the super-weird Stuxnet-Windows LNK vulnerability story. Not only did we find out that there is another binary associated with Stuxnet that was digitally signed by a certificate belonging to JMicron Semiconductor, but we also discovered that there are now new pieces of malware, separate from Stuxnet, that are exploiting the Windows shell LNK vulnerability. This was probably inevitable, but it raises legitimate concerns about the possible emergence of a worm exploiting the flaw, as one of the new pieces of malware has the ability to create new malicious LNK files and spread on its own. Oh, and thereu2019s also the fact that it seems pretty clear that the creators of Stuxnet had advance knowledge of a vulnerability in a Siemens SCADA software package called WinCC, which the malware exploits whenever it finds itself on a vulnerable system. Not a comforting thought. Others receiving votes Dell Ships Malware-Infected Server Motherboard Inside the Black Energy 2 Botnet The 2010 Hack Cup Soccer Tournament " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365d306cefc42b002942ab" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Malware Emerges to Exploit Windows LNK Flaw", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-malware-emerges-exploit-windows-lnk-flaw-072310/74251/", "Date" : "July 23, 2010 , 3:33 pm", "Article" : "Researchers have found two distinct new malware families that are exploiting the newly discovered Windows shell LNK vulnerability, leading to concerns that the development of a worm could be in the offing.  One of the new pieces of malware, dubbed Chymine by researchers at Eset, exploits the LNK vulnerability to infect new machines and then tries to connect to a remote server and download another piece of malicious code. That piece of malware is a keylogger, designed to monitor an infected PCu2019s input and look for high-value data such as online banking passwords. Chymine does not create new, malicious LNK files on its own, however.  Another piece of malware, known as Autorun.VB.RP, does have the ability to produce malicious LNK files that contain an exploit for the Windows shell vulnerability. That means that the malware has the ability to spread on its own and could become a more serious problem.  The appearance of Chymine and the adaptation of Autorun.VB.RP to exploit the LNK flaw follow the emergence of Stuxnet, the worm that was first seen last month and has been making headlines for exploiting the previously unknown LNK vulnerability. Microsoft has said that it is working on a patch for the flaw, which can be exploited via infected USB drives, via WebDAV or possibly through drive-by downloads, experts say. u201cThese new families represent a major transition: Win32/Stuxnetndemonstrates a number of novel and interesting features apart from thenoriginal 0-day LNK vulnerability, such as its association with thentargeting of Siemens control software on SCADA sites and the use ofnstolen digital certificates, However, the new malware weu2019re seeing isnfar less sophisticated, and suggests bottom feeders seizing onntechniques developed by others,u201d the Eset researchers said.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365d3a6cefc42b002942bd" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet May Be the New New Thing in Malware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stuxnet-may-be-new-new-thing-malware-072210/74245/", "Date" : "July 22, 2010 , 3:42 pm", "Article" : "As more information continues to come out about the Stuxnet worm and the vulnerabilities that it exploits, itu2019s becoming increasingly clear that this kind of attack may be a preview of the attacks that are likely to become commonplace in the months and years ahead. There are several interesting pieces to the Stuxnet puzzle: its use of a zero-day flaw in the Windows shell to spread; the fact that it has drivers and a separate binary signed by two separate digital certificates belonging to legitimate technology vendors; and its use of pre-owned USB drives to infect PCs. But perhaps the most troubling aspect of the Stuxnet attack is that it appears to have been designed specifically to exploit a weakness in a particular SCADA control software package. The vulnerability itself is as elementary as it comes: a hard-code password built into the WinCC SCADA control system produced by Siemens. The problem is a design flaw thatu2019s common in many purpose-built software packages, and Siemens officials have said that they are advising customer not to change the password, because it could affect the systemu2019s stability and operation. Once the malware is on a WinCC system, it tries to establish anconnection to a remote server and then tries to exfiltrate sensitivendata. u201cChanging the access data would impede communication between WinCC andnthe database and is therefore not recommended. Tightening upnauthentication procedures is being examined,u201d the company said in an advisory to customers about the Stuxnet attack.  As Chris Wysopal, CTO of Veracode, points out in his analysis of the Stuxnet attack, this all being done the wrong way. u201cSiemens has put their customers at risk with this egregiousnvulnerability in their software.  Worse, in my book however, is all thencustomers who purchased the software not knowing of its risk.  Softwarencustomers that are operating SCADA systems on critical infrastructure orn their factories with the WinCC Software had a duty to their customersnand shareholders to not purchase this software without proper securityntesting,u201d Wysopal wrote. u201cWe should ask the question, u2018Why didnu2019t Siemens fix the hard codednpassword vulnerability when it was first publicly disclosed?u2019 Theynwaited 2+ years and started to fix it only after a worm exploited it. Wen should also ask the question, u2018Is it negligence when you donu2019t fix ancritical known vulnerability and wait for your customers to getnexploited?'u201d [block:block=47] However, the most interesting aspect of all of this is the fact that the attackers behind Stuxnet clearly knew about the vulnerability in the Siemens WinCC system before the malware was written. That implies that the malware authors had some advance intelligence about the configuration of the Siemens software and knew exactly where there was a weakness. Thatu2019s a serious problem, and itu2019s one that we may be seeing quite a bit more of in the near future. Targeted attacks, with some serious research and planning behind them, are now the order of the day, and as the Stuxnet attack shows, the attackers are most definitely doing their homework.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365d506cefc42b002942d9" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Microsoft Releases FixIt Tool for LNK Flaw", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/microsoft-releases-fixit-tool-lnk-flaw-072110/74238/", "Date" : "July 21, 2010 , 2:32 pm", "Article" : "Microsoft has released a FixIt tool for the unpatched LNK Windows shell vulnerability and also has updated its guidance on how to deal with the flaw. The company also said it is continuing to work on developing a patch for the vulnerability. The FixIt tool that Microsoft published Tuesday mitigates the vulnerability by disabling the display of icons in the task bar and the Windows menu. It doesnu2019t entirely patch the vulnerability, but it helps mitigate one of the attack vectors. u201cThe vulnerability exists because Windows incorrectly parses shortcutsn in such a way that malicious code may be executed when the icon of anspecially crafted shortcut is displayed. This vulnerability can benexploited locally through a malicious USB drive, or remotely via networkn shares and WebDAV. An exploit can also be included in specific documentn types that support embedded shortcuts,u201d Microsoft said. The first reports of the new vulnerability surfaced last week when malware researchers discovered a new Trojan called Stuxnet that uses the LNK vulnerability to infect machines via USB drives. There are are other vectors by which an attacker could exploit the vulnerability, including via a shared drive or WebDAV, Microsoft said.  The Microsoft advisory on the LNK flaw says that the company is working on a patch for the vulnerability, but does not specify a time frame for a patch release. The next scheduled Patch Tuesday release would be August 10, but Microsoft could release an out-of-band patch before then. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365d646cefc42b00294300" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Stuxnet Saga Evolves With New Digitally Signed Binaries", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/stuxnet-saga-evolves-new-digitally-signed-binaries-072010/74230/", "Date" : "July 20, 2010 , 2:34 pm", "Article" : "The Stuxnet saga is continuing to take new and troubling turns. Researchers now have found a new binary file associated with the Stuxnet malware that is signed using the digital certificate of another Taiwanese hardware manufacturer, JMicron Technology Corp. This new revelation adds another layer of complexity to a story thatu2019s already as complicated as they come. Researchers at Eset on Monday said that they had discovered a new file associated with Stuxnet that is signed using JMicronu2019s digital certificate. This comes about a week after experts discovered that the original version of Stuxnet, which exploits the recently publicized .lnk shortcut vulnerability in the Windows shell, had a pair of drivers signed by Realtek Semiconductor. Microsoft has acknowledged the new .lnk vulnerability and said it is investigating the problem. The new twist in the Stuxnet story opens up another set of possibilities for how the attackers are getting their hands on the digital certificates. Getting access to one certificate could be difficult, but thereu2019s any number of ways it could have happened: a lone rogue employee who stole it and sold it; a targeted attack against the company; a man-in-the-middle attack, etc. But the fact that Stuxnet has separate components now signed by certificates belonging to two separate companies raises some questions,u201d Eset researcher Pierre-Marc Bureau said in a blog post. u201cThis new information isnimportant because it provides more information on the people behindnWin32/Stuxnet. u00a0We rarely see such professional operations. They eithern stole the certificates from at least two companies or purchased themnfrom someone who stole them.u201d  There are other possibilities, as well, experts say. Costin Raiu, the head of Kaspersky Labu2019s research team, speculates that the companies involved could also have been the victim of a malware attack. u201cOne possibility here is that both JMicron and Realtek got infected with an trojan such as Zeus, that steals digital certificates. Then, thencybercriminals who got the certificates, either re-sold them on thenmarket or used them by themselves to sign the Stuxnet drivers,u201d he said in a blog post on the Stuxnet case. u201cTo be honest, the fact that trojans were stealing digital certificatesndid not really seem that impressive when I have first seen thisncapability. Now, coupled with the Stuxnet story, it begins tonmake senseu201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365d736cefc42b00294311" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "VeriSign Revokes Certificate Used to Sign Stuxnet Malware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/verisign-revokes-certificate-used-sign-stuxnet-malware-071710/74224/", "Date" : "July 17, 2010 , 7:16 pm", "Article" : "The digital certificate that belonging to Realtek Semiconductor that was used to sign a pair of drivers fro the new Stuxnet rootkit has been revoked by VeriSign. The certificate was revoked Friday, several days after news broke about the existence of the new malware and the troubling existence of the signed drivers. Stuxnetu2019s infection method takes advantage of a previously unknownnvulnerability in most of the current versions of Windows, includingnWindows Vista, Windows 7, both 32- and 64-bit versions, and WindowsnServer 2008. The vulnerabilityn in the Windows shell is what enables the malware to execute via then .lnk files. Microsoft said it is investigating the flaw and looking atnpossible solutions, however there was no clear indication that the company intends to patch the flaw in the near future. On Sunday, proof-of-concept exploit code for the Windows shell vulnerability was posted to Offensive Securityu2019s Exploit Database. The code is designed to work on Windows XP SP3.  Stuxnet is an odd case. It is spread via infected USB thumb drives, which contain the rootkit code, along with two drivers that researchers say are used to hide the existence of the malware both on the USB drive and on the PC, once itu2019s infected. The drivers are signed using a valid digital certificate owned by Realtek, a Taiwanese hardware manufacturer, and Stuxnet uses .lnk shortcut files to launch as soon as the USB drive is opened on a PC. Microsoft malware researchers said on Friday that they had been working with VeriSign to revoke the Realtek certificate, a process that Realtek officials signed off on. The certificate in question actually expired in June. Microsoft oficials also said that they expect other attackers to begin using the techniques utilized by Stuxnet. [block:block=47] u201cWhat is unique about Stuxnet is that it utilizes a new method ofnpropagation. Specifically, it takes advantage of specially-craftednshortcut files (also known as .lnk files) placed on USB drives tonautomatically execute malware as soon as the .lnk file is read by thenoperating system. In other words, simply browsing to the removable median drive using an application that displays shortcut icons (like WindowsnExplorer) runs the malware without any additional user interaction,u201d Microsoftu2019s Tareq Saade said in a blog post. u201cWenanticipate other malware authors taking advantage of this technique.nStuxnet will infect any usb drive that is attached to the system, andnfor this reason weu2019ve classified the malware as a worm.u201d This is the first time that researchers have seen a pice of malware with the infection method that Stuxnet uses, relying on the .lnk shortcut files to launch and hide itself. But itu2019s not likely to be the last, given the popularity of USB drives at the moment and the propensity malware writers have for copying othersu2019 successful tactics.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365d7f6cefc42b0029431f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "This Week In Security: Black Hat, Spammers and Trusted Rootkits", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/week-security-black-hat-spammers-and-trusted-rootkits-071610/74222/", "Date" : "July 16, 2010 , 3:54 pm", "Article" : "The old saying that thereu2019s nothing new under the sun is just as true in the security industry as it is anywhere else. Many new attacks are variants or tweaks of existing ones, new software fails in exactly the same way as old software and new technologies crop up to solve problems that are 30 years old. You can add to that list the sad frequency with which interesting talks at security conferences are having to be canceled because someone doesnu2019t like the content. This week saw yet another talk pulled from Black Hat, a major cybersecurity meeting in Washington, a rootkit with digitally signed drivers and some new tactics by spammers. Read on for the full week in review. The biggest story of the week turned out to be an all-too-familiar one: researchers having to pull a talk from a security conference because of outside pressure. In this case it was Wayne Huang, the CTO and founder of application security company Armorize, who had to cancel his planned talk at Black Hat, titled u201cThe Chinese Cyber Army: An Archaeological Study From 2001 to 2010,u201d because some people in the Chinese and Taiwanese governments objected to the content. Huang had given the talk once before, in 2007 at a small OWASP conference in Taiwan, but the political climate was much different then and the Chinese and Taiwanese governments were not getting along, so the talk went ahead. Now, however, the relations are much better and the government in Taiwan had expressed serious concerns over the talk, which details the tactics, training and makeup of Chinau2019s state-sponsored cyber army.  Armorize has much of its operations in Taiwan, including R&D, so Huang and Armorizeu2019s executives decided that they had no choice but to pull the talk. Huang will still give a second talk that was already scheduled at the Security BSides conference in Las Vegas on a new Metasploit module for drive-by-downloads. (You can hear Armorize CEO Caleb Sima discuss the decision to pull the talk in a short podcast here.)  This week did see one truly novel story, which was the appearance of a new rootkit known as Stuxnet, which not only uses Windows shortcut files to launch but also contains two drivers that are digitally signed using the certificate of Realtek Semiconductor. The malware itself was rather uninteresting, aside from the fact that it uses Windows LNK files, which are shortcuts pointing to original files, to launch from pre-owned USB drives. Thatu2019s odd enough. But then it turned out Stuxnet includes two drivers that were signed using a valid certificate belonging to Realtek, a huge hardware manufacturer in Taiwan. Thatu2019s a new kind of badness that gives the rootkit an easy way to evade security software, which often treat signed files as benign by default. This is not awesome.  In somewhat awesome news, however, is the meeting that took place Wednesday in the White House on the Obama administrationu2019s progress on cybersecurity. Howard Schmidt, the presidentu2019s cybersecurity coordinator, invited more than 100 experts from all walks of security to hear the progress report and offer suggestions on what elese can be done. President Obama dropped in and spoke for about 20 minutes, urging the people at the meeting to continue their work and to work with the government to resolve common problems. u201cTheyu2019re trying to demonstrate that this is a priority for them and Inthink the clearest evidence of that is that Obama was there,u201d saidnCigital CTO Gary McGraw, who attended the meeting. u201cI think theyu2019ve made an awful lot of progress, butnmost of it has been on the operational front, like lowering the numbernof connection points to the Internet. Iu2019d like to see some more rhetoricn at least on software security, because the government agencies arenfalling behind and thatu2019s a shame. Iu2019d like to make sure that we donu2019tnput all of the emphasis on shiny accomplishments and that we pay somenattention to this.u201d [block:block=47] Itu2019s safe to assume that spammers and bot herders have been paying close attention to the takedown efforts that have disrupted some of their larger operations in the last year or so. News came this week that spammers are moving to using disposable domains, buying them in bulk and using each one for less than a day before moving on to the next one. This helps them stay agile and avoid blacklists, which canu2019t keep up, and the takedown efforts of law enforcement and antispam groups. Itu2019s a tactic that makes a lot of sense, given the commodity status of domain names and the ease with which the bad guys can move their operations from one to the other at a momentu2019s notice.  Others receiving votes: Mozilla Bumps Bug Bounty to $3,000 Researchers: Password Crack Could Affect Millions Pulling Back the Curtain on Rogue AV Tech Support " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365d886cefc42b00294330" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Possible New Rootkit Has Drivers Signed by Realtek", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/possible-new-rootkit-has-drivers-signed-realtek-071510/74217/", "Date" : "July 15, 2010 , 6:31 pm", "Article" : "Security researchers have identified a new suspicious program that is copying itself to PCs via USB mass storage devices and is digitally signed with the certificate of Realtek Semiconductor, a major manufacturer of computer products based in Taiwan. The program, known as Stuxnet, looks like a somewhat standard-issue piece of malware, with a couple of key exceptions. Stuxnet uses an LNK file to launch itself from infected USB drives ontonPCs. LNK files are used by Windows programs as a shortcut or referencento an original file, and this is thought to be the first instance of anpiece of suspected malware using a LNK file to infect machines.. Secondly, and far more worrisome, is the fact that the two drivers associated with the Trojan are digitally signed with the Realtek certificate. u201cHowever, sometimes cybercriminals do somehow manage to get theirnhands on their very own code signing certificate/ signature. Recently,nweu2019ve been seeing regular instances of this with Trojans for mobilenphones. When we identify cases like this, we inform the appropriatencertification authority, the certificate is revoked, and so on,u201d Aleks Gostev of Kaspersky Lab said in a blog post on the Trojan. u201cHowever, in the case of Stuxnet, things look very fishy indeed.nBecause the Trojan isnu2019t signed with a random digital signature, but then signature of Realtekn Semiconductor, one of the biggest producers of computer equipment. u201cRecalling a certificate from a company like this simply isnu2019tnfeasible u2013 it would cause an enormous amount of the software whichntheyu2019ve released to become unusable.u201d Upon execution, Stuxnet creates two drivers on the compromised machine, called mrxcls.sys and mrxnet.sys. The drivers are used to mask the malware on both the USB drive and the infected PC. Those two drivers are signed using the certificate of Realtek. The program doesnu2019t seem to do anything else malicious after itu2019s on a new machine, although it will copy itself to other USB drives attached to the PC.  A check of the certificateu2019s validity with VeriSign, the certificateu2019s issuer, shows that it is indeed legitimate. One of the problems that digitally signed malware files such as Stuxnet present is that theyu2019re often trusted implicitly by security programs, so theyu2019re allowed to pass by with no problems. And in some cases the security software may whitelist any digitally signed files as a matter of course.  The Stuxnet Trojan was discovered in mid-June by an antimalware company in Belarus called VirusBlokAda. The certificate for the Trojan was valid through June 10 and Stuxnetu2019s drivers were signed in late January. It was about a week after the certificate expired that the antimalware community first saw Stuxnet in the wild.  Gostev said that one possible explanation for the digitally signed drivers is that theyu2019re legitimate components of the software on a USB drive that have characteristics of a rootkit. The new Trojan is currently confined to machines in India, Iran and Indonesia. [block:block=47] u201cYes, they have rootkit functionality, and hide lnk and ~WTRxxxx.tmpnfiles in the root of the storage device. But that doesnu2019t mean thendriver files arenu2019t legitimate u2013 remember the Sony rootkit incident? And the malware that used the rootkit technology,u201d he wrote. Realtek did not respond to a request for comment. " }n"
%%%Wannacry2017——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bd6d6cefc42b002934bf" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Shadow Brokers Leaks Another Windows Hacking Tool Stolen from NSAu2019s Arsenal", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/09/shadowbrokers-unitedrake-hacking.html", "Date" : "2017-09-07T20:56:00-11:00", "Article" : "The Shadow Brokers, a notorious hacking group that leaked several hacking tools from the NSA, is once again making headlines for releasing another NSA exploitu2014but only to its "monthly dump service" subscribers. Dubbed UNITEDRAKE, the implant is a "fully extensible remote collection system" that comes with a number of "plug-ins," enabling attackers to remotely take full control over targeted Windows computers. In its latest post, the hacking group announced a few changes to its monthly dump service and released encrypted files from the previous months as well. Notably, the September dump also includes an unencrypted PDF file, which is a user manual for the UNITEDRAKE (United Rake) exploit developed by the NSA. According to the leaked user manual, UNITEDRAKE is a customizable modular malware with the ability to capture webcam and microphone output, log keystrokes, access external drives and more in order to spy on its targets. The tool consists of five componentsu2014server (a Listening Post), the system management interface (SMI), the database (to store and manage stolen information), the plug-in modules (allow the system capabilities to be extended), and the client (the implant). Snowden Leak Also Mentions UNITEDRAKE UNITEDRAKE initially came to light in 2014 as a part of NSA's classified documents leaked by its former contractor Edward Snowden. The Snowden documents suggested the agency used the tool alongside other pieces of malware, including CAPTIVATEDAUDIENCE, GUMFISH, FOGGYBOTTOM, GROK, and SALVAGERABBIT, to infect millions of computers around the world. CAPTIVATEDAUDIENCE is for recording conversations via the infected computer's microphone GUMFISH is for covertly taking control over a computeru2019s webcam and snap photographs FOGGYBOTTOM for exfiltrating Internet data like browsing histories, login details and passwords GROK is a Keylogger Trojan for capturing keystrokes. SALVAGERABBIT is for accessing data on removable flash drives that connect to the infected computer. New Terms for Shadow Brokers Monthly Dump Service The Shadow Brokers is now only accepting payments in ZCash (ZEC) from its monthly subscribers, rather than Monero since it uses clear text email for delivery, and has also raised the rates for exploits, demanding nearly $4 Million. The group demanded 100 ZEC when it started its first monthly dump service in June, but now the hackers are demanding 16,000 ZEC (which costs $3,914,080 in total) for all NSA dumps. Zcash currently trades at $248 per unit. Those who want to gain access only to the September dump that includes the new NSA malware files need to pay hackers 500 ZEC. The Shadow Brokers gained popularity after leaking the SMB zero-day exploit, called Eternalblue, that powered Wannacry ransomware attack that crippled large businesses and services around the world in May. After that, the mysterious hacking group announced a monthly data dump service for those who want to get exclusive access to the NSA arsenal, which they claim to have stolen from the agency last year." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bd876cefc42b002934c8" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Marcus Hutchins (MalwareTech) Gets $30,000 Bail, But Can't Leave United States", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/08/malwaretech-marcus-hutchins.html", "Date" : "2017-08-04T22:46:00-11:00", "Article" : "Marcus Hutchins, the malware analyst who helped stop global Wannacry menace, has reportedly pleaded not guilty to charges of creating and distributing the infamous Kronos banking malware and is set to release on $30,000 bail on Monday. Hutchins, the 23-year-old who operates under the alias MalwareTech on Twitter, stormed to fame and hailed as a hero over two months ago when he stopped a global epidemic of the WannaCry ransomware attack by finding a kill switch in the malware code. MalwareTech Arrested After Attending Def Con Event Hutchins was recently arrested at the McCarran International Airport before he could board his flight back to the U.K. after attending Def Con event for his alleged role in creating and distributing the Kronos Banking Trojan between 2014-2015. Kronos is a Banking Trojan designed to steal banking credentials and personal information from victims' computers, which was sold for $7,000 on Russian online forums. MalwareTech to Pay $30,000 for Bail, But Can't Leave US In a police interview, Hutchins admitted of writing the code of malware that targeted bank accounts, US prosecutors said during a hearing on Friday, but during the hearing at a Las Vegas court, he pleaded not guilty. The judge at Las Vegas court ruled on Friday that Hutchins could be released on $30,000 bail, saying the defendant wasn't a danger to the community nor a flight risk, though the judge ordered him to remain in the U.S. with GPS monitoring. Unfortunately, since the clerk's office closed at 4 PM, the bail did not happen yet. The attorney expects Hutchins will be released on Monday but will need to appear in Wisconsin for facing the grand jury indictment on Tuesday (8 August). Adrian Lobo, Hutchins' defence attorney (in above video), later confirmed to the local reporter Christy Wilcox. "We intend to fight the case," Lobo said. "He has dedicated his life to researching malware, not to try to harm people. He has tremendous community support, local and abroad and in the computer world." Hutchins, along with another unnamed co-defendant, is currently facing six counts of hacking-related charges from the United States Department of Justice (DoJ) for writing the Kronos virus in 2014. If Found Guilty, MalwareTech Could Face 40 Years In US Prison Hutchins was also charged with five other counts, including wiretapping and violating Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. If convicted, Hutchins faces a maximum of 40 years in jail. Hutchins' supporters believe that he is innocent and claims a tweet from July 2014 proves he could not have written the malware. In the tweet, Hutchins was himself asking for a Kronos sample." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36571b6cefc42b002938b8" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "WannaCry Extortion Fraud Reemerges", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/wannacry-extortion-fraud-reemerges/133062/", "Date" : "June 25, 2018 , 4:02 pm", "Article" : "Extortion emails that threaten recipients with a WannaCry infection if they donu2019t pay up are making the rounds in the UK and elsewhere. The activity prompted an alert Friday from the City of Londonu2019s Action Fraud unit, which said at the time that police had already received almost 300 reports in just a two-day span. The emails claim that all of the victimu2019s devices have been hacked and infected with the infamous ransomware. In reality, the threat is an empty one. u201cThe WannaCry emails are designed to cause panic and trick you into believing that your computer is infected with WannaCry ransomware,u201d Action Fraud warned. u201cIn reality the emails are just a phishing exercise.u201d Nonetheless, the threat actors sending the emails are banking on consumers erring on the side of caution, and are demanding payment from victims in Bitcoin in exchange for u201cfixingu201d the purported infection. The strategy is a savvy one, and especially for the U.K.: WannaCry ransomware made headlines in May last year after about 200,000 computers across more than 150 countries were affected, with one of the biggest impacts being felt in the National Health Services in England and Scotland. In addition to the general issues of computers being locked, healthcare devices were also frozen. MRI scanners, blood storage refrigerators, and other medical equipment were compromised to the point that non-critical patients were turned away from some facilities with at least 6,900 NHS appointments canceled, according to NHS. In all, more than a third of NHS trusts in England were disrupted by the ransomware, according to the U.K.u2019s National Audit Office (NAO). The gambit is similar to another current scam led by emails coming from the u201cWannaCry-Hack-teamu201d, with a subject line of u201c!!!Warning Wannacrypt!!!u201d According to an alert from Sophos on Friday, the email reads, u201cHello! WannaCry is back! All your devices were cracked with our program installed on them. We have improved operation of our program, so you will not be able to regain the data after the attack.u201d The email then tells the victim when the data is scheduled to be deleted u2013 unless, of course, the ransom (0.1 BTC of $650) is paid. According to Sophos, thereu2019s no malware, and the entire effort is simply fraud. The firm said the campaign is u201cvery widespread.u201d This isnu2019t the first time fraudsters have used WannaCry as a way to reel in victims. Last year, it was used as a hook to try and get people to click on the links within a very convincing BT-branded phishing email. Consumers can protect themselves first and foremost by being skeptical of emails from unknown senders, and those claiming oneu2019s machine has a virus infection. The u201cyouu2019re infectedu201d approach is a well-worn social-engineering tactic thatu2019s been used in tech-support scams for years. In fact, last year an extortion campaign made the rounds in which consumers received pop-ups on their computers that claimed they had been infected with WannaCry. The pop-ups asked people to call a phone number connecting to scammers that were more than willing to take peopleu2019s money. Also, keeping antivirus, software, apps and operating systems regularly up-to-date is a critical best practice. Images courtesy of Action Fraud. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657e56cefc42b00293a14" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "WannaCry Shares Code with Lazarus APT Samples", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/wannacry-shares-code-with-lazarus-apt-samples/125718/", "Date" : "May 16, 2017 , 11:45 am", "Article" : "As the first inkling of attribution emerged in the WannaCry ransomware outbreak, researchers found another attack using the same leaked NSA attack tools to spread the Adylkuzz cryptocurrency miner. Kafeine, a well-known exploit researcher who works for Proofpoint, said Monday that this attack could be greater in scale than WannaCry, which spread worldwide on Friday infecting Windows machines still unpatched against the SMBv1 vulnerabilities exploited by the NSAu2019s EternalBlue exploit and DoublePulsar rootkit and backdoor. Once Adylkuzz infects a machine, it mines the open source Monero cryptocurrency, which goes to great lengths to obfuscate its blockchain information, making it a challenge to trace activity. Kafeine said the Adylkuzz attacks pre-date WannaCry with the first samples going back to April 24. More than 20 virtual private servers are scanning the internet for targets running port 445 exposed, the same port used by SMB traffic when connected to the internet, and the same port abused by EternalBlue and DoublePulsar. u201cUpon successful exploitation via EternalBlue, machines are infected with DoublePulsar. The DoublePulsar backdoor then downloads and runs Adylkuzz from another host,u201d Kafeine said. u201cOnce running, Adylkuzz will first stop any potential instances of itself already running and block SMB communication to avoid further infection. It then determines the public IP address of the victim and download the mining instructions, cryptominer, and cleanup tools.u201d In the meantime on Monday afternoon, Google researcher Neel Mehta, the same researcher who discovered the Heartbleed vulnerability in 2014, posted a tweet indicating a connection between WannaCry and the Lazarus APT. Lazarus is alleged to be behind the 2016 SWIFT attacks in Bangladesh and a number of other incursions against other banks, casinos and cryptocurrency operations.  Mehtau2019s tweet shows a code array shared between a Lazarus sample from February 2015 and an early version of WannaCry that surfaced in February of this year. Since then, researchers at Kaspersky Lab, Symantec and Comae Technologies Matt Suiche have confirmed the similarities, adding fuel to the possible connection between North Korea and the current ransomware outbreak.   Lazarusu2019 history is a notorious one, starting with the 2014 Sony hack, which it is alleged to have pulled off. The group stole and leaked movie scripts, sensitive corporate emails and much more private data from the company, and also used wiper malware to damage internal workstations at Sony Pictures Entertainment. Last yearu2019s massive heist starting at the Bangladesh Bank abused the organizationu2019s connection to the SWIFT network to make close to a $1 billion in fraudulent transactions. All but $80 million had been recovered once the attack was made public. At this yearu2019s Kaspersky Lab Security Analyst Summit, researchers from Kaspersky, BAE Systems and SWIFT talked shared more details about Lazarusu2019 activities, including a group within the APT it called Bluenoroff dedicated to stealing money in order to fund Lazarusu2019 activities. Theyu2019ve hardly been as successful generating the same revenue with WannaCry, which at last count has collected 40 Bitcoin, which translates to about $71,000 USD. u201cFor now, more research is required into older versions of Wannacry,u201d Kaspersky Lab said in a report published Monday. u201cWe believe this might hold the key to solve some of the mysteries around this attack. One thing is for sure u2014u00a0Neel Mehtau2019s discovery is the most significant clue to date regarding the origins of Wannacry.u201d A request made to Google to speak with Mehta was declined. u201cNothing to add beyond Neelu2019s tweet,u201d a Google spokesperson told Threatpost. While researchers admit the evidence is hardly definitive, this would be the first publicly known tools stolen from one nation-state to be used on such a scale. u201cThe attribution to Lazarus Group would make sense regarding their narrative which in the past was dominated by infiltrating financial institutions in the goal of stealing money,u201d Suiche said in a report published Monday. u201cIf validated, this means the latest iteration of WannaCry would in fact be the first nation state powered ransomware. This would also mean that a foreign hostile nation would have leveraged lost offensive capabilities from Equation Group to create global chaos.u201d Kaspersky Lab also said the likelihood of this being a false flag operations is u201cimprobable;u201d Kaspersky researchers have published several reports in the past 18 months on APTs and false flags. u201cIn theory anything is possible, considering the 2015 backdoor code might have been copied by the Wannacry sample from February 2017. However, this code appears to have been removed from later versions,u201d Kaspersky Lab said. u201cThe February 2017 sample appears to be a very early variant of the Wannacry encryptor. We believe a theory a false flag although possible, is improbable.u201d Kaspersky Labu2019s Juan Andres Guerrero Saade and Matt Suiche will co-host a webinar on the possible Lazarus connection Wednesday at 10 a.m. Eastern. Register here.  " }n"
%%%Petya2016——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c3e56cefc41c844ab240" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "FedEx Profit Takes $300 Million Hit After Malware Attack", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/fedex-profit-takes-300-million-hit-after-malware-attack", "Date" : "September 20, 2017", "Article" : "The malware attack that hit international delivery services company TNT Express in June had a negative impact of roughly $300 million on FedExu2019s profit in the latest quarter. TNT Express, which FedEx acquired last year for $4.8 billion, was one of several major companies whose systems were infected with NotPetya malware (also known as Nyetya, PetrWrap, exPetr, GoldenEye, and Diskcoder.C) in late June. The company reported a few weeks after the attack that the incident had a significant impact on its operations and communications. FedEx admitted at the time that it was possible TNT would not be able to fully restore all affected systems and recover all the critical business data encrypted by NotPetya. u201cThe worldwide operations of TNT Express were significantly affected during the first quarter by the June 27 NotPetya cyberattack. Most TNT Express services resumed during the quarter and substantially all TNT Express critical operational systems have been restored. However, TNT Express volume, revenue and profit still remain below previous levels,u201d the company said on Tuesday. u201cOperating results declined due to an estimated $300 million impact from the cyberattack, which was partially offset by the benefits from revenue growth, lower incentive compensation accruals and ongoing cost management initiatives,u201d it added. Hurricane Harvey, a category 4 hurricane that hit Texas in late August, also had a negative impact on the companyu2019s earnings in the latest quarter. FedEx reported earnings of $2.19 per diluted share compared to $2.65 per diluted share one year ago. The company reported a revenue of $15.3 billion and reaffirmed its commitment to improve the operating income of its largest business, FedEx Express, by $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion by 2020 compared to fiscal 2017. FedEx is not the only company whose bottom line was impacted by NotPetya, a piece of malware that initially appeared to be ransomware and later turned out to be a wiper. Financial reports published in August by Danish shipping giant AP Moller-Maersk, British consumer goods company Reckitt Benckiser, voice and language solutions provider Nuance Communications, Mondelez International, and French construction giant Saint-Gobain reported losses of millions of dollars due to the cyberattack. The highest sum was announced at the time by Saint Gobain, which expected losses to rise to nearly $400 million. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c41d6cefc41c844ab2a1" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Sofacy Targets European Govt as U.S. Accuses Russia of Hacking", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/sofacy-targets-european-govt-us-accuses-russia-hacking", "Date" : "March 16, 2018", "Article" : "Just as the U.S. had been preparing to accuse Russia of launching cyberattacks against its energy and other critical infrastructure sectors, the notorious Russia-linked threat group known as Sofacy was spotted targeting a government agency in Europe. The United States on Thursday announced sanctions against Russian spy agencies and more than a dozen individuals for trying to influence the 2016 presidential election and launching cyberattacks, including the destructive NotPetya campaign and operations targeting energy firms. The Department of Homeland Security and Federal Bureau of Investigation issued a joint technical alert via US-CERT last year to warn about attacks launched by a group known as Dragonfly, Crouching Yeti and Energetic Bear on critical infrastructure. Researchers previously linked Dragonfly to the Russian government and now the DHS has officially stated the same. US-CERT has updated its alert with some additional information. The new version of the alert replaces u201cAPT actorsu201d with u201cRussian government cyber actors.u201d The DHS said that based on its analysis of malware and indicators of compromise, Dragonfly attacks are ongoing, with threat actors u201cactively pursuing their ultimate objectives over a long-term campaign.u201d This is not the first time the U.S. has imposed sanctions on Russia over its attempt to influence elections. Russia has also been accused by Washington and others of launching the NotPetya attack last year. The Kremlin has always denied the accusations, but President Vladimir Putin did admit at one point that patriotic hackers could be behind the attacks. If Dragonfly and Sofacy (aka Fancy Bear, APT28, Sednit, Tsar Team and Pawn Storm) are truly operating out of Russia, they donu2019t seem to be discouraged by sanctions and accusations. On March 12 and March 14, security firm Palo Alto Networks spotted attacks launched by Sofacy against an unnamed European government agency using an updated variant of a known tool. Sofacy has been using a Flash Player exploit platform dubbed DealersChoiceu00a0since at least 2016 and it has continued improving it. The latest version has been delivered to a government organization in Europe using a spear phishing email referencing the u201cUnderwater Defence & Securityu201d conference, which will take place in the U.K. later this month. What makes the new version of DealersChoice interesting, according to Palo Alto Networks, is the fact that it employs a clever evasion technique that has not been seen in the past. Older versions of DealersChoice loaded a malicious Flash object as soon as the bait document was opened. The latest samples, however, include the Flash object on page three of the document and itu2019s only loaded if users scroll down to it. This Flash object, displayed in the document as a tiny black box, contacts the command and control (C&C) server to download an additional Flash object that contains the actual exploit.  Kaspersky reported last week that it had seen overlaps between attacks launched by Sofacy and campaigns conducted by other state-sponsored cyberspies, including ones linked to China and the United States. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4246cefc41c844ab2ae" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Russian Cyberspies Target Hotels in Europe", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/russian-cyberspies-target-hotels-europe", "Date" : "August 11, 2017", "Article" : "A notorious Russia-linked hacker group specializing in cyber espionage is believed to be behind an ongoing campaign targeting hotels in several European countries. FireEye has linked the attacks with moderate confidence to APT28, a threat actor also known as Pawn Storm, Fancy Bear, Sofacy, Sednit and Strontium. The group is believed to have launched numerous high-profile attacks, including a campaign targeting last yearu2019s presidential election in the United States. While the recent attacks have targeted the networks of hotels, the security firm says there is some indication that the hackers may actually be looking to access the devices of government and business travelers via the guest Wi-Fi provided by these hotels. FireEye has seen attacks targeting several companies in the hospitality sector, including hotels in seven European countries and one Middle Eastern country. The attacks start with a spear phishing email sent to a hotel employee. The emails carry a document named u201cHotel_Reservation_Form.doc,u201d which uses macros to decode a dropper that deploys GameFish, a piece of malware known to be used by APT28. This backdoor was used recently in a campaign launched by the threat group against Montenegro just as the country had been preparing to join NATO. Once they gained access to the targeted hotelu2019s network, the hackers used the NSA-linked EternalBlue SMB exploit, which was also involved in the recent WannaCry and NotPetya outbreaks, to move laterally within the network. Researchers said this was the first time the group had used this exploit. The cyberspies also used Responder, an open source penetration testing tool developed by Laurent Gaffie of SpiderLabs. They leveraged Responder for NetBIOS Name Service (NBT-NS) poisoning. u201cThis technique listens for NBT-NS (UDP/137) broadcasts from victim computers attempting to connect to network resources. Once received, Responder masquerades as the sought-out resource and causes the victim computer to send the username and hashed password to the attacker-controlled machine. APT28 used this technique to steal usernames and hashed passwords that allowed escalation of privileges in the victim network,u201d FireEye researchers explained. In one incident that occurred in 2016, a user connected to a hotelu2019s Wi-Fi and 12 hours later their device was accessed by APT28 using stolen credentials. The attackers started moving through the victimu2019s network and accessed their Outlook Web Access (OWA) account. While these attacks can be carried out remotely, in this case the attacker appeared to be on the same network and physically close to the victim. Kaspersky reported recently that APT28 has been using two zero-day vulnerabilities in targeted attacks, and it has started experimenting with new macro techniques. These are not the only attacks apparently aimed at travelers. Other campaigns include DarkHotel, which some have linked to South Korea, Duqu 2.0, targeting the networks of European hotels hosting participants in Iranian nuclear negotiations, and according to some reports, high-profile people visiting Russia and China may have their devices accessed. u201cCyber espionage activity against the hospitality industry is typically focused on collecting information on or from hotel guests of interest rather than on the hotel industry itself, though actors may also collect information on the hotel as a means of facilitating operations,u201d FireEye said. u201cBusiness and government personnel who are traveling, especially in a foreign country, must often rely on less secure systems to conduct business than at their home office, or may be unfamiliar with the additional threats posed while abroad.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4356cefc41c844ab2c8" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Malware Attack Disrupts Merck's Worldwide Operations", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/malware-attack-disrupts-mercks-worldwide-operations", "Date" : "August 01, 2017", "Article" : "American pharmaceutical giant Merck revealed in its financial results announcement for the second quarter of 2017 that a recent cyberattack has disrupted its worldwide operations, including manufacturing, research and sales. While Merck has not provided details about the incident in its financial report, the June 27 attack referenced by the company is most likely the NotPetya malware outbreak that affected tens of thousands of systems in more than 65 countries. Many of the victims were located in Ukraine, the home of a tax software firm whose product was used as the main attack vector. Researchers initially believed NotPetya (aka PetrWrap, exPetr, GoldenEye and Diskcoder.C) was a piece of ransomware, similar to WannaCry. However, a closer analysis revealed that it was actually a wiper and it was unlikely that victims could recover their files, even if they paid the ransom. Merck, which was named as one of the victims of the NotPetya attack shortly after the outbreak started, said on Friday that it had yet to fully assess the impact of the disruption. The company said it had still been working on restoring operations and minimizing the effects of the incident. u201cThe company is in the process of restoring its manufacturing operations. To date, Merck has largely restored its packaging operations and has partially restored its formulation operations,u201d Merck said. u201cThe company is in the process of restoring its Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient operations but is not yet producing bulk product. The companyu2019s external manufacturing was not impacted. Throughout this time, Merck has continued to fulfill orders and ship product.u201d Merck is just one of several major companies affected by the NotPetya attack. The list also includes Ukraine's central bank, Russian oil giant Rosneft, UK-based advertising group WPP, Danish shipping giant A.P. Moller-Maersk, and FedEx-owned TNT Express. FedEx reported last month that it had still been working on restoring systems hit by the destructive malware attack, and admitted that it may not be able to fully restore all affected systems and recover all the critical business data encrypted by NotPetya. Reckitt Benckiser, the British consumer goods company that makes Nurofen, Dettol and Durex products, said the attack disrupted its ability to manufacture and distribute products. The firm estimated that the incident could have an impact of u00a3100 million ($130 million) on its revenue. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c44b6cefc41c844ab2f3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "U.S., Canada, Australia Attribute NotPetya Attack to Russia", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/us-canada-australia-attribute-notpetya-attack-russia", "Date" : "February 16, 2018", "Article" : "The United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand have joined the United Kingdom in officially blaming Russia for the destructive NotPetya attack launched last summer. Moscow has denied the accusations. In a statement released on Thursday, the White House attributed the June 2017 attack to the Russian military and described it as u201cthe most destructive and costly cyber-attack in history.u201d u201cThe attack, dubbed u2018NotPetya,u2019 quickly spread worldwide, causing billions of dollars in damage across Europe, Asia, and the Americas,u201d the White House Press Secretary stated. u201cIt was part of the Kremlinu2019s ongoing effort to destabilize Ukraine and demonstrates ever more clearly Russiau2019s involvement in the ongoing conflict. This was also a reckless and indiscriminate cyber-attack that will be met with international consequences.u201d According to the Australian government, the conclusion that threat actors sponsored by Russia are responsible for the cyberattack was reached based on information from its domestic intelligence agencies and consultation with the U.S. and U.K. u201cThe Australian Government condemns Russiau2019s behaviour, which posed grave risks to the global economy, to government operations and services, to business activity and the safety and welfare of individuals,u201d stated Angus Taylor, Australiau2019s Minister for Law Enforcement and Cybersecurity. u201cThe Australian Government is further strengthening its international partnerships through an International Cyber Engagement Strategy to deter and respond to the malevolent use of cyberspace.u201d Canadau2019s Communications Security Establishment (CSE) also accused Russia of launching the NotPetya attack based on its own assessment. u201cCanada condemns the use of the NotPetya malware to indiscriminately attack critical financial, energy, government, and infrastructure sectors around the world in June 2017,u201d said CSE Chief Greta Bossenmaier. u201cAs previously stated, the Government of Canada continues to strongly oppose the use of cyberspace for reckless and destructive criminal activities. We remain committed to working with our allies and partners to maintain the open, reliable and secure use of cyber space.u201d New Zealandu2019s Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB) said that while the country was not directly targeted by NotPetya, the incident did cause disruption to some organizations that had rushed to update their systems after news of the attack broke. New Zealand has joined the other Five Eyes countries in condemning the attack, but its statement suggests that its attribution of the incident to Russia is based solely on information provided by GCSBu2019s international partners. British Foreign Office Minister for Cyber Security Lord Tariq Ahmad said Russia u201cshowed a continued disregard for Ukrainian sovereigntyu201d by launching the NotPetya attack. Moscow has denied the accusations, describing them as unsubstantiated and groundless. u201cThis is nothing more than the continuation of the Russophobic campaign lacking any evidence,u201d said Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov. The NotPetya malware (also known as PetrWrap, exPetr, GoldenEye and Diskcoder.C) affected tens of thousands of systems around the world. Researchers initially believed NotPetya was a piece of ransomware, but a closer analysis revealed that it was actually a destructive wiper. Rosneft, AP Moller-Maersk, Merck, FedEx, Mondelez International, Nuance Communications, Reckitt Benckiser, and Saint-Gobain reported losing hundreds of millions of dollars due to the attack. Last year, Five Eyes countries and Japan officially accused North Korea of launching the WannaCry attack. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c44e6cefc41c844ab2f9" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "U.K. Officially Blames Russia for NotPetya Attack", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/uk-officially-blames-russia-notpetya-attack", "Date" : "February 15, 2018", "Article" : "The United Kingdom on Thursday officially accused the Russian government of launching the destructive NotPetya attack, which had a significant financial impact on several major companies. British Foreign Office Minister for Cyber Security Lord Tariq Ahmad said the June 2017 NotPetya attack was launched by the Russian military and it u201cshowed a continued disregard for Ukrainian sovereignty.u201d u201cThe Kremlin has positioned Russia in direct opposition to the West yet it doesnu2019t have to be that way. We call upon Russia to be the responsible member of the international community it claims to be rather then secretly trying to undermine it,u201d the official stated. u201cThe United Kingdom is identifying, pursuing and responding to malicious cyber activity regardless of where it originates, imposing costs on those who would seek to do us harm. We are committed to strengthening coordinated international efforts to uphold a free, open, peaceful and secure cyberspace,u201d he added. The U.K. believes that while the NotPetya attack masqueraded as a criminal campaign, its true purpose was to cause disruption. The countryu2019s National Cyber Security Center (NCSC) assessed that the Russian military was u201calmost certainlyu201d responsible for the attack, which is the highest level of assessment. The U.K. was also the first to officially accuse North Korea of launching the WannaCry attack. The United States, Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand followed suit several weeks later. Last month, Britain's Defence Secretary Gavin Williamson accused Russia of spying on its critical infrastructure as part of a plan to create u201ctotal chaosu201d in the country. While the U.S. has not made an official statement on the matter, confidential documents obtained by The Washington Post last month showed that the CIA had also concluded with u201chigh confidenceu201d that the Russian military was behind the NotPetya attack. Cybersecurity firms and Ukraine, the country hit the hardest by NotPetya, linked the malware to other threats previously attributed to Russia. The NotPetya malware outbreak affected tens of thousands of systems in more than 65 countries. Researchers initially believed NotPetya (also known as PetrWrap, exPetr, GoldenEye and Diskcoder.C) was a piece of ransomware, but a closer analysis revealed that it was actually a destructive wiper. Rosneft, AP Moller-Maersk, Merck, FedEx, Mondelez International, Nuance Communications, Reckitt Benckiser, and Saint-Gobain reported losing hundreds of millions of dollars due to the attack. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4576cefc41c844ab304" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Network Spreading Capabilities Added to Emotet Trojan", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/network-spreading-capabilities-added-emotet-trojan", "Date" : "July 21, 2017", "Article" : "Researchers at Fidelis Cybersecurity have spotted a variant of the Emotet Trojan that has what appears to be a feature designed to help the malware spread on internal networks. The recent WannaCry and NotPetya incidents have demonstrated how efficient an attack can be if the malware includes a component that allows it to spread from one system to another. Given the success of these operations, other cybercriminals may also be looking to incorporate similar capabilities into their malware. Emotet, also known as Geodo, is related to the Dridex and Feodo (Cridex, Bugat) malware families. Emotet has mainly served as a banking Trojan, helping cybercriminals steal banking credentials and other sensitive information from users in Europe and the United States. In the attacks observed recently by Fidelis, Emotet has been used as a downloader for several other banking Trojans based on the victimu2019s geographical location. The spreader component seen in attacks over the past month is designed to enumerate network resources in an effort to locate shares to which it can write a file and create a remote service. The service, named u201cWindows Defender System Service,u201d writes the malware to the disk and executes it. If a shared resource is password-protected, the malware will try to guess credentials for user and administrator accounts by launching a dictionary attack. Researchers pointed out that the network spreader component they have analyzed is packaged differently compared to the known Emotet modules, which could indicate that the spreader is a component used only by a specific group and not a direct piece of the malware. u201cWith the recent addition of spreading capabilities being added to ransomware itu2019s not at all surprising to see other malware families start to look into adding similar capabilities. It seems to be a common trend lately for malware developers to add in functionality based on whatu2019s in the news which recently has been filled with all things wormable, which could mean this might be a continued trend for malware in the future,u201d said Fidelisu2019 Jason Reaves. Fidelis has published a blog post containing technical details on the spreader component and indicators of compromise (IoC). Related Reading: Ursnif Banking Trojan's Distribution Networks Exposed Related Reading: Russian Hackers Infected 1 Million Phones With Banking Trojan Related Reading: TrickerBot Trojan Targets Private Banking " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c45b6cefc41c844ab308" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "FedEx May Have Permanently Lost Data Encrypted by NotPetya", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/fedex-may-have-permanently-lost-data-encrypted-notpetya", "Date" : "July 20, 2017", "Article" : "FedEx-owned international delivery services company TNT Express is still working on restoring systems hit last month by the destructive NotPetya malware attack, but some business data may never be recovered, FedEx said in a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filing this week. NotPetya (also known as Nyetya, PetrWrap, exPetr, GoldenEye, and Diskcoder.C) infected tens of thousands of systems, including ones belonging to major organizations, in more than 65 countries. Many of the victims were located in Ukraine, which is not surprising considering that the main attack vector was the update system of M.E. Doc, an accounting tool developed by Kiev-based tax software firm Intellect Service. The infosec community initially believed NotPetya was a piece of ransomware, similar to WannaCry. However, closer analysis revealed that it was actually a wiper and it was unlikely that victims could recover their files, even if they paid the ransom. TNT Express, whose Ukraine office uses the compromised tax software, was hit hard by the attack, which led to FedEx temporarily suspending trading of its shares on the New York Stock Exchange. Itu2019s worth noting that FedEx was also impacted by the WannaCry attack. In its annual report with the SEC on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2017, FedEx said the attack did not affect any other of its companies. While there is no evidence that any data was stolen by malicious actors from TNT systems, the attack had a significant impact on the companyu2019s operations and communications. A majority of TNT services are available by now, but FedEx informed customers of possible delays in service and invoicing due to the use of manual processes. The company is working on restoring critical systems, including operational, finance, back-office and secondary business systems, but itu2019s unclear how long the process will take. Furthermore, FedEx believes itu2019s u201creasonably possibleu201d that TNT will not be able to fully restore all affected systems and recover all the critical business data encrypted by NotPetya. u201cGiven the recent timing and magnitude of the attack, in addition to our initial focus on restoring TNT operations and customer service functions, we are still evaluating the financial impact of the attack, but it is likely that it will be material,u201d FedEx said in a press statement. u201cWe do not have cyber or other insurance in place that covers this attack. Although we cannot currently quantify the amounts, we have experienced loss of revenue due to decreased volumes at TNT and incremental costs associated with the implementation of contingency plans and the remediation of affected systems.u201d FedEx is not the only shipping company hit by NotPetya. Danish shipping giant A.P. Moller-Maersk also had its systems infected, which prevented it from accepting new orders. Maersk-owned APM Terminals, a global port and cargo inland services provider, was also affected, causing problems at major ports in the United States and Europe. According to Reuters, Maersk admitted that its antivirus software was not effective against the NotPetya malware, and the company now claims to have implemented additional security measures to prevent future incidents. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c46c6cefc41c844ab32b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Maersk Reinstalled 50,000 Computers After NotPetya Attack", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/maersk-reinstalled-50000-computers-after-notpetya-attack", "Date" : "January 26, 2018", "Article" : "Jim Hagemann Snabe, chairman of Danish shipping giant A.P. Molleru2013Maersk, revealed this week at the World Economic Forum in Switzerland that the company was forced to reinstall software on nearly 50,000 devices following the NotPetya attack. In a panel on securing a common future in cyberspace, Hagemann Snabe, former co-CEO of SAP, said the NotPetya malware had hit a large number of systems housed by the company. According to Hagemann Snabe, Maersku2019s IT team had to reinstall software on its entire infrastructure, including 45,000 PCs and 4,000 servers, totaling 2,500 applications. The mammoth task took only 10 days to complete, during which time the company manually coordinated operations. This was not easy considering that Maersk is the largest container shipping company in the world and itu2019s responsible for roughly 20 percent of world trade. Hagemann Snabe noted that a ship carrying 10,000-20,000 containers docks into a port every 15 minutes. Maersk employees managed to manually process 80 percent of the work volume, but the NotPetya incident still cost the company $250-$300 million. In the aftermath of the cyberattack, the shipping giant realized that its cybersecurity capabilities had been only u201caverage,u201d but Hagemann Snabe says the company is now determined to improve cybersecurity to the point where it u201cbecomes a competitive advantage.u201d u201cWe need a very significant increase in our level of understanding of this problem,u201d Hagemann Snabe told the panel. u201cIt is time to stop being naive when it comes to cybersecurity. I think many companies will be caught if they are naive u2013 even size does not help you. I think it is very important that we are not just reactive but proactive, and I think we canu2019t be average, we got to be the best we can.u201d Hagemann Snabe believes his company was probably collateral damage in a state-sponsored attack.  The NotPetya malware outbreak, which U.S. and Ukrainian government agencies have attributed to Russia, affected tens of thousands of systems in more than 65 countries. Many of the victims were located in Ukraine, the home of a tax software firm whose product was used as the main attack vector. Researchers initially believed NotPetya (also known as PetrWrap, exPetr, GoldenEye and Diskcoder.C) was a piece of ransomware. However, a closer analysis revealed that it was actually a wiper. In addition to Maersk, the list of major organizations hit by the incident includes Rosneft, Merck, FedEx-owned TNT Express, Mondelez International, Nuance Communications, Reckitt Benckiser, and Saint-Gobain. These companies reported that the attack had cost them tens and even hundreds of millions of dollars. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4736cefc41c844ab337" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Less Malware, Better Quality: AV-TEST", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/less-malware-better-quality-av-test", "Date" : "July 05, 2017", "Article" : "While the number of malware samples spotted in 2016 decreased compared to the previous year, threats have been more sophisticated, according to the latest security report from antivirus research company AV-TEST. AV-TEST identified roughly 127.5 million malware samples last year, which represents a 14% decrease from the 144 million seen in 2015. This translates to approximately 350,000 new samples each day, or four new samples per second. The number of samples may have declined, but malware is becoming increasingly sophisticated, as demonstrated by the NotPetya and WannaCry ransomware attacks, banking Trojans, and threats designed to target Internet of Things (IoT) devices. This includes complex encryption and increased flexibility in the case of ransomware, and the use of special malware in attacks aimed at the SWIFT banking network. While the threat posed by ransomware has been made clear by recent attacks, this type of malware accounts for only less than one percent of the total share of Windows malware. Despite the small proportion, AV-TEST pointed out that, due to their mode of action and potential damage, these types of Trojans cannot be considered a marginal phenomenon. u201cA level of distribution comparable to traditional viruses is not required to reap the greatest possible profit. Ransomware involves u2018high-tech malwareu2019, which seeks its victims above all in a targeted business environment. For instance, emails infected with ransomware are sent out almost exclusively on weekdays,u201d AV-TEST said. Ransomware development peaked in the first quarter of 2017, with more than 110,000 samples detected by the company in April. The quantity of Windows malware has decreased, but AV-TEST noticed that the number of Mac OS samples increased by 370% to 3,033 samples u2013 a majority of which have been classified as Trojans. More than 4,000 new samples were already identified in the first quarter of 2017.  The number of Android malware samples doubled in 2016 to over 4 million, with the largest spike recorded in June, when AV-TEST identified nearly 650,000 new pieces of malware. In the same month, the company spotted more than 9,200 exploits covering all versions of Android. The complete AV-TEST Security Report 2016/2017 is available online in PDF format. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c47d6cefc41c844ab344" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Industry Reactions to Destructive NotPetya Attacks: Feedback Friday", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/industry-reactions-destructive-notpetya-attacks-feedback-friday", "Date" : "June 30, 2017", "Article" : "A wiper malware disguised as ransomware wreaked havoc this week, infecting the systems of numerous organizations across more than 60 countries. While initial analysis suggested that this was a Petya-powered ransomware attack similar to WannaCry, further investigation revealed that the malware is actually designed to overwrite the master boot record (MBR) of compromised machines. There is no way to recover encrypted files, even if the ransom is paid.  The wiper, tracked as NotPetya, Petya.A, Petrwrap, exPetr, and GoldenEye, has leveraged various tools and exploits for initial infection and lateral movement within a network. While major organizations around the world were hit by the ransomware, some evidence suggests that the attack may have actually been aimed at Ukraine. Industry professionals have commented on the NotPetya campaign, including its implications, attribution, and why these types of attacks are still possible. And the feedback beginsu2026 Nir Giller, CTO, CyberX: "Let's face it u2014 when the Shadow Brokers leaked the NSAu2019s hacking tools, they let the genie out of the bottle and thereu2019s no putting it back in. We should expect to see all kinds of cyber-adversaries playing with and building on top of them. Some of us in the ICS cyber security community are braced for the worst - mainly that some creative hacker will find a way to cross-pollinate elements of WannaCry/Petya with the destructive payloads of the ICS-specific Industroyer/CrashOverride malware. If that were to happen, then we're playing a whole new ballgame." Paul Innella, CEO, TDI: "There are strict physical safety measures imposed on numerous industries like seat belts and airbags, yet we need look only at the current U.S. administration and their public stance on cybersecurity to see an instance of unbelievably insufficient governmental policy.  The entire Intelligence Community and the cybersecurity community which supports the government knows and has known the Russians have sophisticated teams and methodologies which have been attacking us for years. This administration seems to have turned a blind eye on our national defense given their consistent refusal to admit Russiau2019s complicity. This makes a bold statement that the White House has no intention of preventing, at a policy level, cyber-attacks. There are still gaping holes in the Federal CISO and White House CISO positions and weu2019ve not received any movement in policies or executive orders of any substance." Jason Kichen, Head of Cybersecurity Services, Versive: u201cThe evidence suggesting this weeku2019s so-called u2018Petyau2019, or u2018NotPetyau2019 ransomware attack is, in fact, a destructive wiper-like attack points to the potential for even deeper concealment and cover techniques as different actors are emboldened to employ more attacks. The forensic analysis of this malware seems to indicate that itu2019s not u2018trueu2019 Petya ransomware, but probably came from the same codebase. Someone picked up Petya, made a series of modifications, and sent it on its way with a new destructive mission. The modifications to the malware do not make it any better or stronger or more effective as a ransomware tool, but they did make it more effective as a destructive tool and u2013 more importantly - kept a lot of people distracted with the ransom angle for days. u00a0 This possible deception reveals a key point: Considering the publicity that ransomware attacks receive, it would make a lot of sense to execute a targeted, destructive cyber-attack under the guise of a seemingly opportunistic, criminal-driven ransomware spree. Equally important u2013 an attacker does not need a lot of advanced knowledge or tools to pull this off, re-purposing malware from the wild is commonplace, and packaging in leaked exploits requires only slightly more expertise. In so far as true attribution is even possible, there is likely far more to be learned by focusing on the specific Ukrainian victims and the initial attack vectors, versus the specifics of how the ransomware functioned.u201d Tom Kellermann, CEO, Strategic Cyber Ventures: u201cFrom Russia with love... The Cyber siege of Ukraine harkens the escalation of the conflict along the border with Russia. This cyber pulse is being directed by the Kremlin and is using cyber militias like CyberBerkuit to take down critical infrastructure. This should serve as a warning to NATO members that Putin is ready to take the gloves off.u201d Hank Thomas, COO, Strategic Cyber Ventures: u201cA senior Ukrainian Military Intelligence official was killed in a car bomb yesterday in Kiev. The Russians appear to be expanding their multi domain approach to their current campaign. Expect for there to be destructive attacks in the near future facilitated by cyber means. Much of what is going on right now is simply armed reconnaissance or reconnaissance by fire.u201d Travis Farral, Director of Security Strategy, Anomali: u201cA number of us in the security community are debating if the Petya attack on 27 June wasnu2019t a targeted attack on Ukraine, disguised as a ransomware attack on any organization caught up in the method used for infection. u00a0 There are details that support such a theory. The attackers behind the ransomware havenu2019t experienced much ROI despite the broad impact of the attack, they set up a weak payment process, launched the attack just prior to Ukraineu2019s Constitution Day and leveraged a malware family named for the pet name of Ukrainian President, Petro Poroshenko. u00a0 Intelligence is leaning towards the idea that the impact the attack had on Ukraine was a causal effect, and entities affiliated with campaign were caught in the crossfire of destruction or a diversion rather than ransom collection.u201d Ajay Arora, CEO and Co-Founder, and Tom Conklin, Head of Security and Compliance, Vera: "Companies are not keeping pace with the attackers. They are slow to patch and running vulnerable environments. While IT is patching yesterday's attack the threat has evolved and attackers have moved on. u00a0 Our corporate culture is to blame. Many companies are either lacking the resources to aggressively patch, or they are concerned that patches could affect system availability (SLAs) so there is an incentive that if it ain't broke don't fix it. u00a0 This primarily affected European countries with the exception of Merck, for two reasons: They are much more lax about keeping up-to-date on patches, and they have a ton of pirated or illegal copies of software and thus donu2019t update software. u00a0 The NSA and government should do something about the genie that they let out of the bottle that is being exploited. They should be actively working to provide tools and at least recommendations as to how to close the vulnerabilities that they revealed. Itu2019s costing the world countless amounts of dollars and is allowing the attackers to mount cyber warfare against companies, rather than simple theft." Ryan Kazanciyan, Chief Security Architect, Tanium: u201cMany anti-malware tools focus on the most common vectors used in attacks: exploits delivered through office applications, web browsers and plug-ins, etc. As we've come to see, this distant-cousin of Petya was different: victims were infected by means of a third-party application's automatic update function. Did some prevention software still catch the malware on day zero? Sure. But for plenty of others, this attack highlighted a blind spot. The so-called "next-gen EPP" market is now several years old, yet this generation still feels a whole lot like past ones. Attackers continue to innovate, adapt, and succeed against automated anti-malware solutions. u00a0 The solution isn't to simply revisit our approach to malware detection and prevention yet again. Both WannaCry and this recent attack highlight fundamental failures of systems management technologies (and the processes built around them). [...] Time and time again, incidents like these demonstrate that businesses cannot ignore the root of their security problems in favor of quick band-aid solutions. There are far greater gains to be made by modernizing environments, adopting security mechanisms built into the latest operating systems, and building networks that are far more resilient to compromise or failure.u201d Philip Lieberman, President, Lieberman Software: u201cThe quality and nature of cybersecurity within Europe is generally exceedingly poor compared to the United States. Government and industry are not operating in a cooperative manner as they do here in the US and the level of investment in security is comparatively very low as compared to here. At its core, Europe is a soft target for cyber attacks and there is little they have done to prepare or to react to the attacks. The lack of information technology security infrastructure and preparation is minimal in both government and businesses because of cultural and financial decisions of the last 20 years.u201d Milind Kulkarni, vice president of product management, Veriflow: "The 'Petya' ransomware malware responsible for Tuesday's attack was especially virulent for two reasons; it appeared to use code sourced to NSA's stolen hacking arsenal that was distributed by Shadow Brokers in March. Many of those tools consisted of zero days, which are impervious to most (if not all) network security products on the market. Second, the malicious code, appears to have been tweaked to behave similarly to the devastating 'WannaCry' ransomware attack in May. Both Petya and WannaCry spread laterally through open networks once they compromised a system. With this one-two punch, attackers were able to quickly take entire networks offline. u00a0 Because today's network security products are essentially ineffective against zero-day malware, it is important for organizations to implement some form of network segmentation. Network segmentation splits networks into isolated subnetworks. The advantage to this approach is that it can increase network performance and overall network security. Using network segmentation, critical data and infrastructure can be isolated in one network segment, while employees are isolated in another. What's more, employees and data could be microsegmented into even smaller groups. So, in the event of a catastrophic zero-day attack, the malware would only be able to affect those systems within the defined segment and would not be able to spread to other systems in the network." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4806cefc41c844ab347" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New KillDisk Variant Spotted in Latin America", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/new-killdisk-variant-spotted-latin-america", "Date" : "January 15, 2018", "Article" : "A new variant of the disk-wiper malware known as KillDisk has been spotted by Trend Micro researchers in attacks aimed at financial organizations in Latin America. The security firm is in the process of examining the new variant and the attacks, but an initial analysis showed that the Trojan appears to be delivered by a different piece of malware or it may be part of a bigger attack. Early versions of KillDisk were designed to wipe hard drives in an effort to make systems inoperable. The malware was used by the Russia-linked threat actor BlackEnergy in the 2015 attack aimed at Ukraineu2019s energy sector. Roughly one year after the Ukraine attack, researchers reported that its developers had turned KillDisk into file-encrypting ransomware. However, the samples analyzed at the time used the same encryption key for all instances, making it possible for victims to recover files. Experts later reported seeing a KillDisk ransomware designed to target Linux machines, but the malware did not save encryption keys anywhere, making it impossible to recover files. Some links have also been found between KillDisk and the NotPetya malware, which initially appeared to be a piece of ransomware but later turned out to be a disk wiper. NotPetya hit machines in more than 65 countries and major companies reported losing hundreds of millions of dollars as a result of the attack. The latest variant, which Trend Micro tracks as TROJ_KILLDISK.IUB, goes back to its roots and focuses on deleting files and wiping the disk. The malware, designed to target Windows systems, goes through all drives in order to delete files, except for system files and folders. It then proceeds to wipe the disk, which includes reading the master boot record (MBR) and overwriting the extended boot record (EBR). The file removal and disk wiping procedures involve overwriting files and disk sectors in order to make recovery more difficult. Once files and partitions have been deleted and overwritten, the malware attempts to terminate several processes in an effort to reboot the infected machine. By targeting processes associated with the client/server runtime subsystem (csrss.exe), Windows start-up (wininit.exe), Windows logon (winlogon.exe), and the Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (lsass.exe), the malware can force a blue screen of death (BSOD), a logout, or a restart. Trend Micro has promised to share more information on the new KillDisk variant as its investigation continues. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4906cefc41c844ab36a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Industry Reactions to U.S. Blaming North Korea for WannaCry", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/industry-reactions-us-blaming-north-korea-wannacry", "Date" : "December 22, 2017", "Article" : "The United States, Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand have all officially accused North Korea this week of being behind the WannaCry campaign. They join the United Kingdom, which blamed Pyongyang for the attack back in October. While some security firms pointed the finger at North Korea shortly after the attack, Japan and the Five Eyes countries claim their intelligence agencies reached the same conclusion after conducting their own investigations and sharing data with each other. North Korea has once again denied the accusations, claiming that Washington was demonising it.  Some industry professionals point to evidence showing that these governmentsu2019 assessment is accurate, while others highlight that attribution is a difficult task, and warn that the world is not ready for the next WannaCry. And the feedback begins... Benjamin Read, Manager, Cyber Espionage Analysis, FireEye: u201cFireEye has found the WannaCry malware shares unique code with WHITEOUT malware that we have previously attributed to suspected North Korean actors. While we have not verified other expertsu2019 observation of known DPRK tools being used to drop early versions of WannaCry, we have not observed other groups use the code present in both WannaCry and WHITEOUT and we do not believe it is available in open source. This indicates a connection between the two. u00a0 Our analysis has found this unique code shared across additional North Korean malware, including NESTEGG and MACTRUCK. Significantly, while this code is present in the MACTRUCK malware, it is not used. The shared code likely means that, at a minimum, WannaCry operators share software development resources with North Korean espionage operators. u00a0 In addition to the WannaCry activity, we believe that North Korean actors are using multiple vectors to engage in cyber-criminal actively, including, most prominently, the targeting of Bitcoin exchanges. FireEye assess that North Korea will continue to pursue financially motivated cyber intrusion to supplement the government's income.u201d Tim Erlin, VP of Product Management and Strategy, Tripwire: u201cAccurate attribution for cyber attacks is almost always a difficult task, and itu2019s doubly so when the evidence leading to the conclusion canu2019t be shared. u00a0 With global public trust in the US government at a low point, itu2019s not surprising that thereu2019s skepticism. If weu2019re going to have national security organizations delivering these types of conclusions on attribution to the public, we need to find a way to develop trusted output. The mantra of u2018trust usu2019 doesnu2019t cut it here. u00a0 This conclusion about North Koreau2019s culpability isnu2019t new. The UK discussed the very same conclusion in October, with the very same caveats about sharing the actual evidence. You canu2019t arrest a nation-state, which inevitably prevents any real closure on an incident like WannaCry.u201d Chris Doman, Threat Engineer, AlienVault: u201cWannaCry was linked to a group known as Lazarus, which others have linked to North Korea. There were two data points linking WannaCry to Lazarus - a number of rare code overlaps between WannaCry and Lazarus malware, and Symantec saw an early version of WannaCry manually deployed by Lazarus on one of their clients. The US government may have additional information, but the evidence provided at the time by the private sector was pretty strong. u00a0 The evidence linking Lazarus to North Korea is similarly strong. There are a very small number of publicly assigned internet addresses assigned to North Korea, and they pop up in Lazarus attacks. The attacks have been dated back to at least 2007, and often contain other clues such as North Korean fonts. u00a0 Things take time to come out of the government - but the timing today may have to do with other events. Lazarus have been particularly active recently - Iu2019m seeing numerous new malware samples from them daily. A lot of their current activity involves stealing bitcoin and credit card numbers.u201d Dmitri Alperovitch, CTO and Co-founder, CrowdStrike: u201c[The US Governmentu2019s announcement] of its official public attribution of the WannaCry attack to North Korea regime is another step in establishing the importance for regularly attributing significant attacks to nation-states and criminal groups. It also raises public awareness about North Koreau2019s growing offensive cyber capabilities. CrowdStrike has tracked DPRKu2019s cyber activities going back to the mid-2000s, which started with espionage, then half a decade later evolved into destructive attacks and in the last few years delved into cybercrime such as ransomware and bank heists. They are a very capable actor that is known to have developed 0-day exploits and their own unique malware code. As such, they pose a major threat to organizations globally, especially as tensions between the US and North Korea over the nuclear and missile programs continue to escalate.u201d Joseph Carson, Chief Security Scientist, Thycotic: "Cyber attribution is one of the most difficult tasks in cybersecurity today. Unless the devices are persistent, it is almost impossible to identify who was sitting behind the keyboard, let alone who was instructing that person to carry out the malicious activity without any advanced cyber forensics tools. When attribution is pointing to a nation state, it is crucial that the attribution is communicated by the impacted government and not any private company or entity. Private companies should focus on getting back to a secure and operational state and assist in evidence that assist the government in accordance to any compliance requirements. In my experience, when cybercrime crosses international borders, it is difficult to claim attribution without cooperation of the country to where the evidence leads. u00a0 The challenge with calling out a group like Lazarus, which is widely believed to be associated with North Korea and several previous cyber-attacks, is that it is important to be clear that this is a group and motives can change depending on who is paying. I have found when researching hacking groups they can one day be working for one government under one alias and another using a different alias. This means that association in cyberspace means nothing. In my experience in digital forensics, I have always followed two rules when analyzing a cyber-crime: follow the motive or follow the money u2014 either one will lead to the criminal. u00a0 In both WannaCry and NotPetya it looks like the motive was not financial. To me, it is clear that multiple bad actors played a part in the creation and malicious use of the ransomware. The payload and financial portion of the crime appears to be constructed by two different groups of cybercriminals. Remember, the real purpose of ransomware can be a combination of motives, or involve multiple threat actors with different motives. It is always important to step back and think: if this was your crime how would you have done it? Itu2019s crucial to be able to think and look at the world through the eyes a hacker or cyber-criminal.u201d Michael Daly, CTO, Raytheon Cybersecurity and Special Missions: u201cThe message for any company doing business on the internet is that North Korea sees you as a target. So do other rogue nation-states, and so do transnational crime organizations. For them, ransomware is an irresistible crime. It keeps hundreds of millions of dollars in untraceable cryptocurrency flowing in, all the while causing chaos in places like hospitals, power plants, train stations, financial institutions and telecommunications companies. u00a0 It's no coincidence the administration announced its findings in a publication they knew would reach the people who have the power and influence to strengthen networks in the commercial sector. Stronger networks are more expensive to attack, and when we increase the cost of cybercrime, we undermine the incentive for the attack.u201d Travis Farral, Director of Security Strategy, Anomali: u201cAttributing certain attacks or specific malware to an actor, group, or nation-state is difficult in the cyber world. Often, attribution is made as a best-guess based on available evidence. In the case of WannaCry, a handful of prominent security companies noted clues that pointed to the Lazarus Group, a North Korea associated actor group, as the potential culprits behind the malware. The cited links connecting North Korea to WannaCry have been far from conclusive, however. The U.S. Government claims to have evidence indicating that North Korea was indeed behind WannaCry. They may have such evidence, but because they have not shared the details with the public, it is a case of trusting their judgment on the matter.u201d Atif Mushtaq, CEO, SlashNext: u201cThe interesting thing about malware is that, like any other product that works effectively, it can become widely-adopted. We recently blocked an exploit called u201cEternalBlueu201d which takes advantage of a Microsoft Windows Security flaw to gain entry using the network file sharing protocol (TCP ports: 139, 445). Similarities, including infection vectors, code sequences, infrastructure and exploitation techniques, link this to the APT called u201cUnit 180,u201d as well as a backdoor program called Contopee, originating from Lazarus, a North Korean hacking group. The core malware gets used but each hacking group modifies their attack strategy in order to evade signature- or sandbox-based detection mechanisms.u201d Chris Morales, Head of Security Analytics, Vectra: u201cMost industry experts believe that North Korea is engaged in finding alternative means for funding their efforts as they have been cut off from traditional financial channels. When WannaCry was first detected, we saw similarities in the code used for that ransomware attack with previous attacks attributed to North Korea, like the Sony hack. North Korea has been targeting banks directly with banking malware while using ransomware against other organizations to acquire a large volume of Bitcoin. North Korea has benefited greatly from with the meteoric rise in bitcoin over the past year. With the success in financial gain they have received from cybercrime, we can expect to see more. u00a0 We anticipate that many more ransomware attacks will continue to occur. They will have different names and use different exploits. What wonu2019t change is the nature of the attacks and their associated behavior. While we donu2019t know when the next big attack will occur, enterprises need to be ready for it. Ongoing advances in AI have allowed technology to augment the efforts of cybersecurity teams. And there must be a seismic shift in the cybersecurity industry to identify attacker behaviors fast and early to stop ransomware attacks.u201d Eddie Habibi, Founder and CEO, PAS: u201cWhile attribution is an important question to answer, the real question is are we prepared for the next WannaCry? The lifeblood of critical infrastructure plants u2013 where electricity is generated, fuel is produced, and drinking water is cleaned u2013 are industrial control systems. They are responsible for process safety, production uptime, and environmental protection. Attacks on these systems have increased seven-fold since 2010, and the bad guys are achieving greater success with every attack. u00a0 Even after WannaCry initially hit, many plants had systems that remained unpatched. Just last week, attackers were successful taking control of safety systems in a plant with malware called TRITON/TRISIS. They did not need a vulnerability to assert control; they only needed specific process knowledge and an unprepared plant environment. u00a0 The threat landscape is fluid, and risk is increasing for critical infrastructure companies. Traditional IT security controls are not keeping pace with the requirements of operational technology systems, and industries need better methods to increase visibility into their most critical cyber assets u2013 eighty percent of which are largely invisible to security personnel today. The basic fact is, you cannot protect what you cannot see.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4a26cefc41c844ab38b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Organizations Getting Better at Detecting Breaches: Report", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/organizations-getting-better-detecting-breaches-report", "Date" : "December 08, 2017", "Article" : "Organizations have become slightly better at detecting cyber intrusions, but malicious actors are constantly working on improving their tactics and techniques, according to CrowdStrikeu2019s 2017 Cyber Intrusion Services Casebook. The report is based on data collected by the security firm from more than 100 investigations. Four of these cases are analyzed in detail in the report, including a SamSam ransomware attack on a commercial services organization, a cybercrime operation aimed at a manufactureru2019s e-commerce application, a PoS malware incident targeting a large retailer, and a NotPetya infection. CrowdStrike has determined that organizations continue to improve their ability to detect intrusions on their own. The percentage of firms that self-detected a breach increased to 68 percent, up from 57 percent in the previous year. As for dwell time, which is the number of days between the initial intrusion and detection, the average has decreased slightly to 86 days. CrowdStrike pointed out that it still takes some organizations as much as 800 to 1,000 days to detect a breach, but these cases are an exception. u201cRegardless of dwell time duration, automated systems may eventually detect an intrusion, but by the time human staff is alerted and aware itu2019s often too late: the attackers must be stopped before they can achieve their objectives,u201d CrowdStrike said in its report. Of the attacks analyzed by CrowdStrike, the most prevalent were aimed at stealing intellectual property, stealing money, stealing personally identifiable information (PII), and ransom or extortion. In more than one-third of attacks, hackers gained access to the targeted organizationu2019s systems using web server, web application or web shell exploits, or file uploaders. Other commonly seen attack vectors were remote access via RDP or VPN (23%), supply chain compromise (12%), social engineering and phishing (11%), and cloud-based service exploits (11%). Roughly two-thirds of the attacks analyzed by the security firm were fileless u2013 they involved malicious code being written to and executed from memory, harvesting credentials via phishing or social engineering, remote logins via stolen credentials, and exploits targeting web applications. CrowdStrike also noticed that tactics and techniques typically used by nation-state actors have been increasingly leveraged by cybercrime groups. u201cThese include fileless malware and u2018living off the landu2019 techniques involving processes native to the Windows operating system, such as PowerShell and WMI (Windows Management Instrumentation),u201d CrowdStrike said. u201cMany also employ anti-forensics tools and methods in an effort to erase signs of their presence and increase dwell time. Brute-force attacks on RDP (remote desktop protocol) servers are also prevalent in these cases.u201d Attackers are also increasingly turning to self-propagating malware, particularly in the case of ransomware such as the notorious WannaCry. These attacks are often successful due to organizations failing to update critical systems and deploying comprehensive security technologies. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4d66cefc41c844ab3ed" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Files Encrypted by Bad Rabbit Recoverable Without Paying Ransom", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/files-encrypted-bad-rabbit-recoverable-without-paying-ransom", "Date" : "October 27, 2017", "Article" : "Some users may be able to recover the files encrypted by the Bad Rabbit ransomware without paying the ransom, Kaspersky researchers discovered after analyzing the malwareu2019s encryption functionality. Once it infects a device, Bad Rabbit looks for certain file types and encrypts them. The disk is also encrypted and a ransom screen is displayed when the computer boots, preventing the victim from accessing the operating system. The disk encryption and bootloader functionality are provided by code derived from a legitimate utility named DiskCryptor. Bad Rabbit has been linked to the NotPetya attack that caused significant disruptions to many companies back in late June. However, unlike NotPetya, which experts classified as a wiper due to the fact that victims could not recover their files even if they paid the ransom, files encrypted by Bad Rabbit can be recovered with the right decryption key. While the encryption mechanisms used by the attackers, AES-128-CBC and RSA-2048, cannot be cracked, Kaspersky experts have identified some methods that may allow some victims to decrypt their disk and recover files. When an infected computer boots up, users are informed that their files have been encrypted and they are instructed to make a payment in order to obtain the password needed for decryption. The same screen also allows victims who have already obtained a password to enter it and boot their system. Kaspersky researchers discovered that the password needed to boot the system is not wiped from memory after itu2019s generated, giving users the opportunity to extract it before the process that creates the password, dispci.exe, is terminated. Entering this password boots the system and decrypts the disk, the security firm told SecurityWeek, but there is only a u201cslim chanceu201d that victims will actually be able to extract the password.  As for recovering files, experts noticed that Bad Rabbit does not delete shadow copies, which are backups made by Windows. If users enabled this backup functionality before the files were encrypted and the malwareu2019s full disk encryption functionality failed for some reason or the disk is decrypted using the aforementioned method, the data can be restored via Windows or third-party utilities. Kaspersky has also confirmed that Bad Rabbit does in fact use an NSA-linked exploit to spread; earlier reports claimed no exploits had been observed. The malware uses EternalRomance, which NotPetya also leveraged. Based on the numerous similarities, the Bad Rabbit attack is believed to have been carried out by the same threat group that launched the NotPetya campaign, namely the Russia-linked threat actor known as BlackEnergy, TeleBots and Sandworm Team. Some are not convinced due to the fact that a majority of the victims were in Russia. Others pointed out, however, that the main target may have been Ukraine, where several major organizations were hit. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4d86cefc41c844ab3f0" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Profiling Tool Suggests 'Bad Rabbit' Not Financially Motivated", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/profiling-tool-suggests-bad-rabbit-not-financially-motivated", "Date" : "October 27, 2017", "Article" : "Researchers at FireEye noticed that some of the websites redirecting users to the Bad Rabbit ransomware hosted a profiling framework, which could suggest that the attack was not financially motivated. The Bad Rabbit attack, which led to the infection of hundreds of machines in Russia and Ukraine with ransomware, started with users being redirected to 1dnscontrol[.]com, a domain that served a malware dropper disguised as a Flash Player installer. Users had to manually execute the file in order to become infected. FireEye noticed that several compromised websites redirecting to the 1dnscontrol domain had hosted a profiling tool. Tracked by the company as BACKSWING, the framework has been seen on more than 50 websites since September 2016, and four of them redirected users to Bad Rabbit ransomware this week. BACKSWING is designed to collect information about a useru2019s browsing session - including User-Agent, HTTP Referrer, cookies, and the current domain - and sends it back to a command and control (C&C) server. FireEye has seen two versions of the tool, the second version replacing the first one on several websites starting with October 5. BACKSWING v2 was mostly injected into legitimate JavaScript resources hosted by affected sites. u201cMalicious profilers allow attackers to obtain more information about potential victims before deploying payloads (in this case, the BADRABBIT u2018flash updateu2019 dropper),u201d FireEye researchers explained. u201cWhile FireEye has not directly observed BACKSWING delivering BADRABBIT, BACKSWING was observed on multiple websites that were seen referring FireEye customers to 1dnscontrol[.]com, which hosted the BADRABBIT dropper.u201d If BACKSWING was in fact used by the threat group behind the Bad Rabbit ransomware, it would suggest that the attack was not financially motivated, as a profit-driven actor would not care about who theyu2019re infecting as long as they make money. This also reinforces the theory that the Bad Rabbit operation was conducted by the Russia-linked threat group known as BlackEnergy, TeleBots and Sandworm Team, which is also believed to be behind the NotPetya wiper attack that targeted Ukraine and other countries in June. u201cWe observed a spike of BACKSWING instances on Ukrainian sites, with a significant increase in May 2017. While some sites hosting BACKSWING do not have a clear strategic link, the pattern of deployment raises the possibility of a strategic sponsor with specific regional interests,u201d FireEye said. While many similarities have been found between NotPetya and Bad Rabbit, one major difference is that the latter mainly hit enterprises and most of the victims are in Russia. However, the relatively small number of Ukrainian organizations affected by the malware include high profile targets, such as the airport in Odessa, the Kiev subway, the State Aviation Service of Ukraine, and the Transport Ministry of Ukraine. Contrary to initial reports, the Bad Rabbit ransomware does in fact appear to leverage an NSA-linked exploit to spread within compromised networks. The exploit in question is called EternalRomance and its details were leaked by the hacker group Shadow Brokers back in April. The vulnerability leveraged by the exploit was patched by Microsoft in March. EternalRomance was also one of the exploits leveraged by the NotPetya wiper. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4df6cefc41c844ab3fb" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "'Bad Rabbit' Ransomware Uses NSA Exploit to Spread", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/bad-rabbit-ransomware-uses-nsa-exploit-spread", "Date" : "October 26, 2017", "Article" : "Contrary to initial reports, the Bad Rabbit ransomware that hit Russia and Ukraine this week does in fact leverage an exploit linked to the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA). Similar to the NotPetya wiper that infected tens of thousands of systems back in late June, Bad Rabbit also uses the Server Message Block (SMB) protocol to spread within the compromised network. However, researchers initially claimed that, unlike NotPetya, the ransomware did not use either of the SMB exploits tracked as EternalBlue and EternalRomance. It turns out that while Bad Rabbit does not use EternalBlue, it does in fact leverage EternalRomance to propagate in the network. The presence of the exploit was first reported by Cisco Talos and later confirmed by F-Secure. The EternalRomance vulnerability was addressed by Microsoft in March 2017 with the release of a security bulletin that also patched the EternalChampion, EternalBlue and EternalSynergy exploits. Details of these flaws were made public by a hacker group calling itself Shadow Brokers earlier this year. The group claims to have obtained these and many other exploits from the NSA and that they were used by one of the agencyu2019s teams known in the cybersecurity industry as the Equation Group. When the exploits were made public by the Shadow Brokers in April, Microsoft pointed out that they had already been fixed, which has led some to believe that the tech giant learned about the vulnerabilities from the NSA itself. The initial analysis showed many connections between Bad Rabbit and NotPetya, including targeting of Ukraine and Russia, binaries signed with expired certificates, use of Mimikatz for credential-grabbing, reboots and persistence via scheduled tasks, removal of event logs and USN change journals, and the same type of file encryption and ransomware functionality. One of the most significant differences is the fact that Bad Rabbit appears to be an actual ransomware and, at least in theory, users can recover their encrypted files if they pay the ransom. NotPetya, on the other hand, has been classified as a wiper due to the fact that the ransom payment functionality is not implemented properly, making the recovery of files impossible. Another major difference is the fact that Bad Rabbit mostly affected enterprises, particularly in Russia. However, itu2019s worth noting that many of the victims in Ukraine are high-profile organizations. NotPetya has been linked to the Russian threat actor known as BlackEnergy, TeleBots and Sandworm Team, which suggests that the same group may be behind the Bad Rabbit attacks as well, although not everyone seems convinced. An analysis of the Bad Rabbit infrastructure showed that some of the compromised domains used in the attack had been set up since at least July and some of the injection servers were first seen more than a year ago. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4e26cefc41c844ab405" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "'Bad Rabbit' Attack Infrastructure Set Up Months Ago", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/bad-rabbit-attack-infrastructure-set-months-ago", "Date" : "October 26, 2017", "Article" : "The infrastructure used by the Bad Rabbit ransomware was set up months ago and an increasing amount of evidence links the malware to the NotPetya attack launched in late June, which some experts believe was the work of a Russian threat actor. A majority of the Bad Rabbit victims are in Russia u2013 over 80% according to some reports u2013 where the ransomware hit several media outlets, including Interfax. Significant infections have also been observed in Ukraine, where the malware reportedly hit major organizations such as the airport in Odessa, the Kiev subway, the State Aviation Service of Ukraine, and the Transport Ministry of Ukraine. Infections have also been spotted in Bulgaria, Turkey, Germany, Japan, the United States, South Korea and Poland. Unlike the NotPetya attack, which hit tens of thousands of systems in more than 65 countries, Bad Rabbit, delivered by attackers via fake Flash Player installers, only infected a few hundred machines mainly belonging to enterprises. The attack began on October 24 at around 10 AM UTC and the majority of infection attempts were detected in the first couple of hours. Analysis conducted by researchers and security firms showed many connections between Bad Rabbit and NotPetya, including the use of legitimate features such as SMB to spread within the compromised network. However, Bad Rabbit does not use EternalBlue or any other exploit. [UPDATE. Bad Rabbit does in fact use the EternalRomance exploit to spread] The security researcher known online as Bart Blaze has published a useful table summarizing the similarities and differences between NotPetya and Bad Rabbit. The similarities include targeting of Ukraine and Russia, binaries signed with expired certificates, use of Mimikatz for credential-grabbing, reboots and persistence via scheduled tasks, removal of event logs and USN change journals, and the same type of file encryption and ransomware functionality. One of the most significant differences is the fact that Bad Rabbit appears to be an actual ransomware and, at least in theory, users can recover their encrypted files if they pay the ransom; unlike NotPetya, which has been classified as a wiper due to the fact that the ransom payment functionality is not implemented properly, making the recovery of files impossible. Bad Rabbit infrastructure Kaspersky Lab researcher Costin Raiu pointed out that several of the compromised domains used in the Bad Rabbit attack had been set up for malicious activity since at least July. An analysis by RiskIQ shows that some of the injection servers involved in the attack were set up more than a year ago. u201cWhile this list is most likely incomplete, it does show that itu2019s part of a long-running campaign. The operators of this campaign have been able to use this position to target unique visitors based on IP space they associate with their targets,u201d explained RiskIQu2019s Yonathan Klijnsma. u201cThe thing we do not understand at this point is why they decided to burn this information position to mass distribute the BadRabbit ransomware rather than save it for another type of malware. The goal of the attack using ExPetya back in June was simple: cause as much disruption in the Ukraine and those associated with Ukraine as possible which also seems the case in the BadRabbit attack,u201d Klijnsma added. Russian security firm Group-IB noted that the domain serving the fake Flash Player installer, 1dnscontrol[dot]com, was hosted by Inferno, which is run by the same people as 3NT Solutions and V3Servers. The activities of this hosting company were detailed back in 2014 by British researcher Conrad Longmore, who has now provided an updated list of IP addresses that he believes should be blocked by organizations. u201cThe domain name 1dnscontrol.com was registered on 22 March 2016 and is currently prolonged. There are a number of malicious domains associated with this site, which relate back to 2011. It is possible that these domains have also been compromised or are used for analogous attacks,u201d Group-IB said. Links to BlackEnergy NotPetya, which is also tracked as Diskcoder, Petya, Petrwrap, exPetr and GoldenEye, was linked back in early July to a threat group known as TeleBots, BlackEnergy and Sandworm Team, which experts have tied to Russia and which is believed to be behind cyberattacks on Ukraineu2019s power grid. NotPetya was linked to BlackEnergy based on similarities to a wiper used by the threat actor, Yara rules detecting both BlackEnergy and NotPetya malware, and previous ransomware attacks that hit Ukraine. Several security firms and researchers pointed out that if the NotPetya attack was conducted by BlackEnergy, and Bad Rabbit was created by the same developers that made NotPetya, the obvious conclusion would be that Bad Rabbit is also the work of the Russia-linked hackers. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4e56cefc41c844ab409" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Removal Attempt Turns Android Banking Trojan Into Ransomware", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/removal-attempt-turns-android-banking-trojan-ransomware", "Date" : "October 25, 2017", "Article" : "Researchers at SfyLabs have detailed the capabilities of an Android banking Trojan named LokiBot that is designed to turn into a piece of ransomware when users attempt to remove it from their devices. LokiBot has been around since at least June and its authors have been rolling out new features nearly every week. Once it infects an Android device (running Android version 4.0 or later), the malware starts displaying overlay screens on top of banking and other popular apps in an effort to trick victims into handing over their information. The malware targets roughly 100 banking applications and popular apps such as WhatsApp, Skype and Outlook. The malware can also open the useru2019s web browser and navigate to a specified page, reply to SMS messages, and launch banking apps. u201cCombine this with the fact that LokiBot can show notifications which seem to come from other apps, containing for example a message that new funds have been deposited to the victimu2019s account and interesting phishing attack scenarios arise!u201d SfyLabs researchers said in a blog post. u201cThe phishing notifications use the original icon of the application they try to impersonate. In addition, the phone is made to vibrate right before the notification is shown so the victim will take notice of it. When the notification is tapped it will trigger an overlay attack.u201d The most interesting feature, which has led researchers to classify LokiBot as a hybrid Android malware, is its ability to turn into ransomware when users attempt to remove it. Specifically, when users try to revoke its admin privileges, the malware initiates a procedure to encrypt all files on the deviceu2019s external storage and locks the screen with a typical ransom demand claiming that the phone is locked for u201cviewing child pornography.u201d Victims are given 48 hours to pay a $70 - $100 u201cfineu201d in bitcoin.  SfyLabs found that the bitcoin address provided by the cybercriminals already stores cryptocurrency worth roughly $1.5 million. However, itu2019s unlikely that the entire amount comes from LokiBot attacks as the campaigns spotted by experts generally have only around 1,000 bots and the cost of the Trojan itself is $2,000. Researchers noticed that while the screen-locking functionality works, the malware doesnu2019t actually encrypt files. Due to an error, files are automatically restored after being encrypted, but with a different name. The malwareu2019s developers have implemented some mechanisms designed to prevent dynamic analysis, but they are not particularly sophisticated, especially compared to other malware. Itu2019s worth noting that there is another Loki Bot malware that targets Windows devices. This threat is designed to steal data from infected computers and it has reportedly been used as a secondary payload in the NotPetya attack launched in late June. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4e96cefc41c844ab411" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Bad Rabbit Linked to NotPetya, but Not as Widespread", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/bad-rabbit-linked-notpetya-not-widespread", "Date" : "October 25, 2017", "Article" : "The Bad Rabbit ransomware attack that hit Russia and Ukraine on Tuesday has been linked to the recent NotPetya outbreak, but the number of infections appears to be far smaller. Several cybersecurity firms have conducted an initial analysis of the threat, including Cisco Talos, Kaspersky, Malwarebytes, ESET, McAfee, Bitdefender and Trend Micro. Bad Rabbit distribution Researchers say the malware spreads via watering hole attacks that deliver a fake Flash Player installer. The malicious file has been delivered from compromised websites in Denmark, Ireland, Bulgaria, Turkey and Russia. Researchers pointed out that victims need to manually launch the fake Flash installer to get infected, and the file needs to obtain administrative privileges, which causes Windows to display a User Account Control (UAC) prompt. The attackers have not made any effort to bypass UAC. Once executed, the dropper copies the main module (infpub.dat) to the Windows folder and executes it through rundll32.exe, a Windows component used to run code in DLL files. Scheduled tasks, which have been given dragon names from the u201cGame of Thronesu201d TV show, are used to execute other malware components and reboot the system. The ransom note is displayed in both text files dropped onto the system and via a bootlocker screen.  Similar to NotPetya, Bad Rabbit does appear to rely on SMB to spread, but, contrary to initial reports, it does not use the NSA-linked EternalBlue exploit. The malware scans the internal network for open SMB shares with a specific name. The threat relies on the Mimikatz post-exploitation tool to harvest credentials, but it also includes a hardcoded list of usernames and passwords. Bad Rabbit file encryption Once it infects a system, Bad Rabbit encrypts more than 100 file types, including archives, backups, databases, images, documents, source code, and virtual disk images. The encrypted files are given a .encrypted extension. Kasperskyu2019s Costin Raiu pointed out that the file types are similar to the ones targeted by NotPetya, but not identical. Bad Rabbit clears security logs and deletes the update sequence number (USN) change journal, which logs all changes made to files on the volume, to prevent recovery. The encryption relies on DiskCryptor, an open source full disk encryption software, and the attackers have used the AES-128-CBC cipher and an RSA-2048 public key. Itu2019s still unclear if files can be recovered without paying the ransom. However, unlike NotPetya, which made it impossible to decrypt files even if the ransom had been paid, researchers confirmed that data encrypted by Bad Rabbit is recoverable with the right key. Victims are asked to pay 0.05 bitcoin, worth roughly $280, to get their files back, but the amount increases if the ransom is not paid within two days. Bad Rabbit victims A majority of the victims are in Russia, where the ransomware hit several media outlets, including Interfax and Fontanka. A significant number of Infections has also been observed in Ukraine, where the malware reportedly hit the airport in Odessa, the Kiev subway, the State Aviation Service of Ukraine, and the Transport Ministry of Ukraine. Infections have also been spotted in Bulgaria, Turkey, Germany, Japan and other countries. Some of the organizations whose systems have been compromised reported suffering significant disruptions. Unlike the NotPetya attack, which hit tens of thousands of systems in more than 65 countries, Kaspersky reported that it had only seen roughly 200 victims. The security firm believes this may have been a targeted attack aimed at corporate networks. Bad Rabbit links to NotPetya Several security firms have classified Bad Rabbit as a variant of NotPetya, the malware that hit numerous organizations in late June and caused losses of millions of dollars for several major companies. NotPetya has also been tracked as Diskcoder, Petya, Petrwrap, exPetr and GoldenEye. While NotPetya initially also appeared to be a piece of ransomware, researchers noticed that the encrypted files could not have been recovered even if the ransom had been paid. The malware was later reclassified as a wiper. The list of similarities between NotPetya and Bad Rabbit includes the fact that both use SMB to spread, they create scheduled tasks to reboot the system, the ransom screen is very similar, both use .dat files as the main component, and some of the functionality and code is almost identical. On the other hand, unlike NotPetya, Bad Rabbit does not use the EternalBlue exploit, its encryption functionality works properly and a more advanced crypter is used, it uses a different kernel and bootloader, and the attacks appear to have been more targeted. Another significant difference is the fact that NotPetya was delivered via a Ukraine-based companyu2019s update server, while Bad Rabbit leverages drive-by attacks. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4ec6cefc41c844ab413" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "'Bad Rabbit' Ransomware Attack Hits Russia, Ukraine", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/bad-rabbit-ransomware-attack-hits-russia-ukraine", "Date" : "October 24, 2017", "Article" : "Several major organizations in Russia and Ukraine were hit in the past few hours by a ransomware named u201cBad Rabbit.u201d The incident reminds of the massive attack involving NotPetya malware, which ended up costing companies millions of dollars. Few details are known so far about the Bad Rabbit attack, which has the potential to cause significant damage. Infected computers display a screen informing users that their files have been encrypted and instructing them to access a website over the Tor anonymity network. The Tor site tells victims to pay 0.05 bitcoin, worth roughly $283, to obtain the key needed to recover the encrypted files. However, the price goes up if the ransom is not paid within two days.  The list of organizations reportedly hit by the Bad Rabbit ransomware includes Russian media outlets Interfax and Fontanka, the airport in Odessa, the Kiev subway, the State Aviation Service of Ukraine, and the Transport Ministry of Ukraine. Interfax and others said the attack disrupted their operations. Researchers are still analyzing the malware, but initial reports claim Bad Rabbit has been distributed via fake Flash Player updates. Some said the ransomware also leverages the Mimikatz post-exploitation tool for lateral movement within the compromised network. Kasperskyu2019s Anton Ivanov revealed that the threat uses code from a legitimate disk encryption utility named DiskCryptor. Security firm ESET said the malware appears to be a new variant of NotPetya, also known as Diskcoder, Petya, Petrwrap, exPetr and GoldenEye. However, this has not been confirmed by other researchers. ESET reported that while most infections are in Russia and Ukraine, some compromised machines were also detected in Turkey, Bulgaria and other countries. There are also some reports that Bad Rabbit uses SMB u2013 specifically the NSA-linked EternalBlue exploit u2013 to spread, just like NotPetya. However, this hasnu2019t been confirmed either. The attack does remind of NotPetya, which started spreading via a software update from a Ukrainian company. However, NotPetya turned out to be a wiper instead of ransomware. The fact that another major attack has hit Ukraine is not surprising considering that the countryu2019s Security Service warned earlier this month about a possible large-scale cyberattack on state organizations and private companies. The agency said the purpose of the attack would be to disrupt IT systems and destabilize the situation in the country. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4ef6cefc41c844ab41c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "One-Third of Industrial Networks Connected to Internet: Study", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/one-third-industrial-networks-connected-internet-study", "Date" : "October 24, 2017", "Article" : "Many industrial and critical infrastructure systems are connected to the Internet, and the operational technology (OT) networks of some organizations have already been compromised, according to a new study from industrial security firm CyberX. What makes the CyberX study interesting is the fact that itu2019s not based on a survey. Instead, the company used data obtained after passively monitoring traffic from 375 OT networks over the past 18 months. The organizations whose networks have been analyzed are from a variety of sectors u2013 including manufacturing, energy and utilities, oil and gas, and pharmaceuticals and chemicals u2013 in the United States, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Organizations have often downplayed the risks associated with the presence of vulnerable industrial control systems (ICS) on their networks, claiming that devices are isolated, or air-gapped, and cannot be accessed remotely from the Internet. However, CyberXu2019s study revealed that roughly one-third of organizations had industrial networks connected to the public Web. These systems are often accessible remotely for convenience, including for remote management, performing software updates, and even web browsing and email from the OT network. More than 80% of industrial sites are running a remote management protocol such as RDP, VNC or SSH, allowing attackers on the OT network to remotely access and control other devices on the network via standard administration tools. Misconfigured wireless access points (WAPs) can also be leveraged as an attack vector, and one in five of the analyzed companies had at least one WAP. CyberX also found that 76% of analyzed industrial sites have machines running obsolete versions of Windows, such as Windows 2000 and Windows XP, on their OT networks. Both Windows devices and industrial systems such as programmable logic controllers (PLCs) had vulnerabilities in 28% of cases. Furthermore, many organizations havenu2019t made sure that strong authentication mechanisms are in place. In nearly 60% of cases, CyberX has seen plaintext passwords crossing the network, allowing man-in-the-middle (MitM) attackers to obtain valuable information. The analysis shows that Modbus is the most widely used industrial protocol (58%), followed by Ethernet IP (28%), Siemensu2019 S7, OPC, OSIsoft PI and MMS. Researchers also found that almost half of industrial sites did not have even basic antivirus protection on Windows endpoints. u201cWeu2019ve heard from customers that adding AV software to endpoints such as HMI workstations can sometimes void the warranty provided by their OT vendors. Vendors are concerned that the overhead of AV scanning software will impact the performance or reliability of their workstations,u201d CyberX said in its report. u201cNevertheless, lack of AV protection increases the risk of having known malware on these systems u2014 such as Conficker, WannaCry, and NotPetya u2014 without even knowing about it.u201d As a matter of fact, CyberX did see malware in 10% of the analyzed OT networks. The security firm has observed Conficker infections, which is one of the most widespread pieces of malware and it has been known to infect even critical infrastructure organizations. CyberX told SecurityWeek that it also noticed some threats that exhibited behavior consistent with the EternalBlue exploit, which has been used by both the WannaCry ransomware and the NotPetya wiper. The data shows little difference between the security scores of various industries u2013 there is only a +/- 5% variation from the median score of 61% across the analyzed sectors.  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bcb26cefc42b00293484" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Microsoft Office 365 Gets Built-in Ransomware Protection and Enhanced Security Features", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2018/04/microsoft-office-ransomware.html", "Date" : "2018-04-06T00:41:00-11:00", "Article" : "Ransomware has been around for a few years, but it has become an albatross around everyone's neck, targeting big businesses, hospitals, financial institutions and individuals worldwide and extorting millions of dollars. Last year, we saw some major ransomware outbreaks, including WannaCry and NotPetya, which wreaked havoc across the world, hitting hundreds of thousands of computers and business networks worldwide. From small to mid-range businesses, Microsoft Office 365 remains the most widely used and fastest-growing work office suite, so it's no surprise that it has become a primary target for viruses, ransomware, and phishing scams. In fact, most strains of ransomware target Microsoft productivity apps such as Word, Excel and encrypt sensitive data to hold the company hostage until the ransom is paid. Now, to combat such cyber attacks, Microsoft has announced some new security features for Office 365 that can help users mitigate the damage done by ransomware and other malware infections. The new features were initially introduced for OneDrive for Business, but that the company is now rolling them out to anyone who has signed up for an Office 365 Home or Personal subscription, Microsoft Office blog says. Here below I have briefed the list of new features: File Recovery and Anti-Ransomware Files Restoreu2014Microsoft Office 365 now allows users to restore entire OneDrive to a previous point in time within the last 30 days. This feature can be used to recover files from an accidental mass delete, file corruption, ransomware, or any catastrophic event. Ransomware detection & recoveryu2014Office 365 had also introduced a new security feature that detects ransomware attacks and alerts you through an email, mobile, or desktop notification while helping you restore your OneDrive to a point before the malware compromised files. Security and Privacy Features Office 365 has added three new features to help keep your confidential or personal data (such as tax documents, family budgets, or a new business proposal) secure and private when sharing them online. Password protected sharing linksu2014This feature allows you to set a password for your shared file and folders, preventing unauthorized access even if your recipient accidentally forwards protected documents to others. Email encryptionu2014This feature allows users to send/receive end-to-end encrypted emails in Outlook over a secure connection, providing additional protection to minimize the threat of being intercepted. Prevent forwardingu2014Microsoft now enables you to restrict your email recipients from forwarding or copying emails you send to them from Outlook. Besides this, any MS Office document attached to your emails will remain encrypted even after downloading, so if the recipient shares your attachment with others, they will not be able to open it. Advanced Protection from Viruses and Cybercrime Advanced link checking in Word, Excel, and PowerPointu2014Office 365 also offers built-in real-time web protection, which monitors every link you click in Word, Excel, and PowerPoint and notifies you if it is suspicious. File Recovery and Anti-Ransomware features began rolling out starting today and will be available to all Office 365 users soon, while features to help keep your information secure and private (including password protected sharing links, email encryption, and prevent forwarding) will start rolling out in the coming weeks. Advanced link checking and advanced attachment scanning are already available in MS Outlook that protects you from previously unseen viruses and phishing scams in real-time. However, advanced link checking in Word, Excel, and PowerPoint will roll out in the second half of 2018." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bcdf6cefc42b00293491" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Meltdown/Specter-based Malware Coming Soon to Devices Near You, Are You Ready?", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2018/02/meltdown-spectre-malware-hacking.html", "Date" : "2018-02-01T01:40:00-11:00", "Article" : "It has been few weeks since the details of the Spectre, and Meltdown processor vulnerabilities came out in public and researchers have discovered more than 130 malware samples trying to exploit these chip flaws. Spectre and Meltdown are security vulnerabilities disclosed by security researchers earlier this month in many processors from Intel, ARM and AMD used in modern PCs, servers and smartphones, among other devices. These CPU vulnerabilities could enable attackers to bypass memory isolation mechanisms and access everything, including memory allocated for the kernel containing sensitive data like passwords, encryption keys and other private information. Researchers from independent antivirus testing firm AV-TEST detected at least 139 malware samples, as of today, which are related to these CPU vulnerabilities, as shown in the growth graph. You can find SHA256 hashes for all malware samples here. Meanwhile, cybersecurity firm Fortinet also tracked and analyzed many malware samples 'trying to exploit' recently disclosed CPU vulnerabilities, most of which includes re-compiled or extended version of the JavaScript-based proof-of-concept (PoC) exploit released last month. "The rate at which the cybercriminal community is targeting known vulnerabilities is clearly accelerating, with the WannaCry and NotPetya exploits serving as perfect examples of the need to patch vulnerable systems as soon as possible," Fortinet said. "Which is why our concerns were raised when we recently learned about some of the largest vulnerabilities ever reportedu2014ones that affect virtually every processor developed since 1995 by chip manufacturers Intel, AMD, and ARM." Another news makes this situation, even more, worseu2014Intel halted all its CPU firmware patches for the Meltdown and Spectre flaws last week after it caused issues like spontaneous reboots and other 'unpredictable' system behaviour on affected PCs. So, until Intel and other vendors do not come up with stable security patches for the Meltdown and Spectre attacks that donu2019t cause systems to break, users are recommended to keep their operating system, web browsers, antivirus and other software up-to-date." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bd406cefc42b002934ae" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Ukraine Police Warns of New NotPetya-Style Large Scale CyberAttack", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/10/ukraine-notpetya-cyberattack.html", "Date" : "2017-10-13T20:24:00-11:00", "Article" : "Remember NotPetya? The Ransomware that shut down thousands of businesses, organisations and banks in Ukraine as well as different parts of Europe in June this year. Now, Ukrainian government authorities are once again warning its citizens to brace themselves for next wave of "large-scale" NotPetya-like cyber attack. According to a press release published Thursday by the Secret Service of Ukraine (SBU), the next major cyber attack could take place between October 13 and 17 when Ukraine celebrates Defender of Ukraine Day (in Ukrainian: u0414u0435u043du044c u0437u0430u0445u0438u0441u043du0438u043au0430 u0423u043au0440u0430u0457u043du0438, Den' zakhysnyka Ukrayiny). Authorities warn the cyber attack can once again be conducted through a malicious software update against state government institutions and private companies. The attackers of the NotPetya ransomware also used the same tacticu2014compromising the update mechanism for Ukrainian financial software provider called MeDoc and swapping in a dodgy update including the NotPetya computer virus. The virus then knocked computers in Ukrainian government agencies and businesses offline before spreading rapidly via corporate networks of multinational companies with operations or suppliers in eastern Europe. Presentation by Alexander Adamov, CEO at NioGuard Security Lab The country blamed Russia for the NotPetya attacks, while Russia denied any involvement. Not just ransomware and wiper malware, Ukraine has previously been a victim of power grid attacks that knocked its residents out of electricity for hours on two different occasions. The latest warning by the Ukrainian secret service told government and businesses to make sure their computers and networks were protected against any intrusion. "SBU notifies about preparing for a new wave of large-scale attack against the state institutions and private companies. The basic aimu2014to violate normal operation of information systems, that may destabilize the situation in the country," the press release reads. "The SBU experts received data that the attack can be conducted with the use of software updating, including public applied software. The mechanism of its realization will be similar to cyber-attack of June 2017." To protect themselves against the next large-scale cyber attack, the SBU advised businesses to follow some recommendations, which includes: Updating signatures of virus protection software on the server and in the workstation computers. Conducting redundancy of information, which is processed on the computer equipment. Providing daily updating of system software, including Windows operating system of all versions. Since the supply chain attacks are not easy to detect and prevent, users are strongly advised to keep regular backups of their important files on a separate drive or storage that are only temporarily connected for worst case scenarios. Most importantly, always keep a good antivirus on your system that can detect and block any malware intrusion before it can infect your device, and keep it up-to-date for latest infection-detection." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bd5f6cefc42b002934ba" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Warning: CCleaner Hacked to Distribute Malware; Over 2.3 Million Users Infected", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/09/ccleaner-hacked-malware.html", "Date" : "2017-09-18T02:26:00-11:00", "Article" : "If you have downloaded or updated CCleaner application on your computer between August 15 and September 12 of this year from its official website, then pay attentionu2014your computer has been compromised. CCleaner is a popular application with over 2 billion downloads, created by Piriform and recently acquired by Avast, that allows users to clean up their system to optimize and enhance performance. Security researchers from Cisco Talos discovered that the download servers used by Avast to let users download the application were compromised by some unknown hackers, who replaced the original version of the software with the malicious one and distributed it to millions of users for around a month. This incident is yet another example of supply chain attack. Earlier this year, update servers of a Ukrainian company called MeDoc were also compromised in the same way to distribute the Petya ransomware, which wreaked havoc worldwide. Avast and Piriform have both confirmed that the Windows 32-bit version of CCleaner v5.33.6162 and CCleaner Cloud v1.07.3191 were affected by the malware. Detected on 13 September, the malicious version of CCleaner contains a multi-stage malware payload that steals data from infected computers and sends it to attacker's remote command-and-control servers. Moreover, the unknown hackers signed the malicious installation executable (v5.33) using a valid digital signature issued to Piriform by Symantec and used Domain Generation Algorithm (DGA), so that if attackers' server went down, the DGA could generate new domains to receive and send stolen information. "All of the collected information was encrypted and encoded by base64 with a custom alphabet," says Paul Yung, V.P. of Products at Piriform. "The encoded information was subsequently submitted to an external IP address 216.126.x.x (this address was hardcoded in the payload, and we have intentionally masked its last two octets here) via a HTTPS POST request." The malicious software was programmed to collect a large number of user data, including: Computer name List of installed software, including Windows updates List of all running processes IP and MAC addresses Additional information like whether the process is running with admin privileges and whether it is a 64-bit system. How to Remove Malware From Your PC According to the Talos researchers, around 5 million people download CCleaner (or Crap Cleaner) each week, which indicates that more than 20 Million people could have been infected with the malicious version the app. "The impact of this attack could be severe given the extremely high number of systems possibly affected. CCleaner claims to have over 2 billion downloads worldwide as of November 2016 and is reportedly adding new users at a rate of 5 million a week," Talos said. However, Piriform estimated that up to 3 percent of its users (up to 2.27 million people) were affected by the malicious installation. Affected users are strongly recommended to update their CCleaner software to version 5.34 or higher, in order to protect their computers from being compromised. The latest version is available for download here." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bd796cefc42b002934c4" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Backdoor Found in Popular Server Management Software used by Hundreds of Companies", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/08/netsarang-server-management.html", "Date" : "2017-08-15T20:06:00-11:00", "Article" : "Cyber criminals are becoming more adept, innovative, and stealthy with each passing day. They are now adopting more clandestine techniques that come with limitless attack vectors and are harder to detect. Recently, cyber crooks managed to infiltrate the update mechanism for a popular server management software package and altered it to include an advanced backdoor, which lasts for at least 17 days until researchers discovered it. Dubbed ShadowPad, the secret backdoor gave attackers complete control over networks hidden behind legit cryptographically signed software sold by NetSarangu2014used by hundreds of banks, media firms, energy companies, and pharmaceutical firms, telecommunication providers, transportation and logistics and other industriesu2014for 17 days starting last month. Important Note u2014 If you are using any of the affected product (listed below), we highly recommend you stop using it until you update them. Hacker Injected Backdoor Through Software Update Mechanism According to researchers at Kaspersky Labs, who discovered this well-hidden backdoor, someone managed to hijack the NetSarang's update mechanism and silently insert the backdoor in the software update, so that the malicious code would silently deliver to all of its clients with NetSarang's legitimate signed certificate. The attackers of the Petya/NotPetya ransomware that infected computers around the world in June used the same tactic by compromising the update mechanism for Ukrainian financial software provider called MeDoc and swapped in a dodgy update including NotPetya. "ShadowPad is an example of the dangers posed by a successful supply-chain attack," Kaspersky Lab researchers said in their blog post published Tuesday. "Given the opportunities for covert data collection, attackers are likely to pursue this type of attack again and again with other widely used software components." The secret backdoor was located in the nssock2.dll library within NetSarang's Xmanager and Xshell software suites that went live on the NetSarang website on July 18. However, Kaspersky Labs researchers discovered the backdoor and privately reported it to the company on August 4, and NetSarang immediately took action by pulling down the compromised software suite from its website and replacing it with a previous clean version. The affected NetSarang's software packages are: Xmanager Enterprise 5.0 Build 1232 Xmanager 5.0 Build 1045 Xshell 5.0 Build 1322 Xftp 5.0 Build 1218 Xlpd 5.0 Build 1220 Hackers Can Remotely Trigger Commands The attackers hide the ShadowPad backdoor code in several layers of encrypted code that were decrypted only in intended cases. "The tiered architecture prevents the actual business logics of the backdoor from being activated until a special packet is received from the first tier command and control (C&C) server (activation C&C server)," the researchers wrote. Until then, the backdoor pings out every 8 hours to a command-and-control server with basic information on the compromised computers, including their domain names, network details, and usernames. Here's how the attackers activate the backdoor: The activation of the backdoor was eventually triggered by a specially crafted DNS TXT record for a specific domain name. The domain name is generated based on the current month and year, and performs a DNS lookup on it. Once triggered, the command and control DNS server in return sends back the decryption key which is downloaded by the software for the next stage of the code, effectively activating the backdoor. Once activated, the ShadowPad backdoor provides a full backdoor for an attacker to download and run arbitrary code, create processes, and maintain a virtual file system (VFS) in the registry, which is encrypted and stored in locations unique to each victim. Kaspersky researchers said they could confirm activated backdoor in one case, against an unnamed company located in Hong Kong. How to Detect this Backdoor and Protect Your Company The company has rolled out an update to kill the malicious software on August 4, and is investigating how the backdoor code got into its software. Anyone who has not updated their NetSarang software since then is highly recommended to upgrade to the latest version of the NetSarang package immediately to protect against any threats. Additionally, check if there were DNS requests from your organization to the following list of domains. If yes, the requests to those domains should be blocked. ribotqtonut[.]com nylalobghyhirgh[.]com jkvmdmjyfcvkf[.]com bafyvoruzgjitwr[.]com xmponmzmxkxkh[.]com tczafklirkl[.]com notped[.]com dnsgogle[.]com operatingbox[.]com paniesx[.]com techniciantext[.]com NetSarang installation kits from April do not include the malicious library." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bd906cefc42b002934ca" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "WannaCry Inspires Banking Trojan to Add Self-Spreading Ability", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/08/trickbot-banking-trojan.html", "Date" : "2017-08-02T01:17:00-11:00", "Article" : "Although the wave of WannaCry and Petya ransomware has now been slowed down, money-motivated hackers and cyber criminals have taken lessons from the global outbreaks to make their malware more powerful. Security researchers have now discovered at least one group of cyber criminals that are attempting to give its banking Trojan the self-spreading worm-like capabilities that made recent ransomware attacks go worldwide. The new version of credential stealing TrickBot banking Trojan, known as "1000029" (v24), has been found using the Windows Server Message Block (SMB)u2014that allowed WannaCry and Petya to spread across the world quickly. TrickBot is a banking Trojan malware that has been targeting financial institutions across the world since last year. The Trojan generally spreads via email attachments impersonating invoices from a large unnamed "international financial institution," but actually leads victims to a fake login page used to steal credentials. Last week, researchers at Flashpoint, who've been continually tracking TrickBot activities and its targets, have discovered that the TrickBot Trojan has just been evolved to spread locally across networks via Server Message Block (SMB). Since the new version of TrickBot is still being tested, the new features are not fully implemented by the hacking gang behind the Trojan. It also doesn't have the ability to randomly scan external IPs for SMB connections, unlike WannaCry which exploited a vulnerability dubbed EternalBlue. Flashpoint researchers said the trojan is modified to scan domains for lists of vulnerable servers via the NetServerEnum Windows API and enumerate other computers on the network via Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP). The new TrickBot variant can also be disguised as 'setup.exe' and delivered through a PowerShell script to spread through interprocess communication and download additional version of TrickBot onto shared drives. According to the researchers, the latest discovery of new TrickBot variant provides an insight into what the operators behind the malware might be using in the near-future. "Flashpoint assesses with moderate confidence that the Trickbot gang will likely continue to be a formidable force in the near term," said Vitali Kremez, director of Research at Flashpoint. "Even though the worm module appears to be rather crude in its present state, it's evident that the Trickbot gang learned from the global ransomware worm-like outbreaks of WannaCry and 'NotPetya' and is attempting to replicate their methodology." In order to safeguard against such malware infection, you should always be suspicious of unwanted files and documents sent over an email and should never click on links inside them unless verifying the source. To always have a tight grip on your valuable data, keep a good backup routine in place that makes their copies to an external storage device that is not always connected to your PC. Moreover, make sure that you run an effective anti-virus security suite on your system, and keep it up-to-date." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bda56cefc42b002934cf" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "THN Weekly Roundup u2014 10 Most Important Stories You Shouldn't Miss", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/07/hacker-news-cybersecurity.html", "Date" : "2017-07-22T02:35:00-11:00", "Article" : "Here we are with our weekly roundup, briefing this week's top cyber security threats, incidents and challenges. This week has been very short with big news from shutting down of two of the largest Dark Web marketplaces and theft of millions of dollars in the popular Ethereum cryptocurrency to the discovery of new Linux malware leveraging SambaCry exploit. We are here with the outline of this week's stories, just in case you missed any of them. We recommend you read the entire thing (just click 'Read More' because there's some valuable advice in there as well). Here's the list of this Week's Top Stories: 1. Feds Shuts Down AlphaBay and Hansa Dark Web Markets u2014 Dream Market Under Suspicion On Thursday, Europol announced that the authorities had shut down two of the largest criminal Dark Web markets u2014 AlphaBay and Hansa u2014 in what's being called the largest-ever international operation against the dark web's black market conducted by the FBI, DEA and Dutch National Police. Interestingly, the federal authorities shut down AlphaBay, but before taking down Hansa market, they took control of the Dark Web market and kept it running for at least a month in an effort to monitor the activities of its visitors, including a massive flood of Alphabay refugees. After the shutdown of both AlphaBay and Hansa, Dream Market has emerged as the leading player, which has been in business since 2013, but it has now been speculated by many dark web users that Dream Market is also under police control. For detailed information u2014 Read more. 2. New Ransomware Threatens to Send Your Internet History to All Your Friends After WannaCry and Petya ransomware outbreaks, a new strain of ransomware has been making the rounds on the Google Play Store in bogus apps, which targets Android mobile phone users. Dubbed LeakerLocker, instead of encrypting files on your device, this Android ransomware secretly collects personal images, messages and browsing history and then threatens to share them with your contacts if you don't pay $50 (u00a338). For more detailed information on the LeakerLocker ransomware u2014 Read more. 3. New CIA Leaks u2014 Smartphone Hacking and Malware Development WikiLeaks last week published the 16th batch of its ongoing Vault 7 leak, revealing the CIA's Highrise Project that allowed the spying agency to stealthy collect and forwards stolen data from compromised smartphones to its server through SMS messages. This week, the whistleblowing organisation revealed about a CIA contractor u2014 Raytheon Blackbird Technologies u2014 who was responsible for analysing advanced malware and hacking techniques being used in the wild by cyber criminals. For more detailed information on Highrise Project and its contractor Raytheon Blackbird Technologies u2014 Read More. 4. Three Back-to-Back Multi-Million Dollar Ethereum Heist in 20 Days This week, an unknown hacker stole nearly $32 Million worth of Ethereum u2013 one of the most popular and increasingly valuable cryptocurrencies u2013 from wallet accounts linked to at least three companies by exploiting a critical vulnerability in Parity's Ethereum Wallet software. This was the third Ethereum cryptocurrency heist that came out two days after an alleged hacker stole $7.4 Million worth of Ether from trading platform CoinDash and two weeks after someone hacked into South Korean cryptocurrency exchange and stole more than $1 Million in Ether and Bitcoins from user accounts. For more detailed information about the Ethereum Heist u2014 Read More. 5. Critical Gnome Flaw Leaves Linux PCs Vulnerable This week has been bad for Linux users as well. A security researcher discovered a code injection vulnerability in the thumbnail handler component of GNOME Files file manager that allowed hackers to execute malicious code on targeted Linux machines. German researcher Nils Dagsson Moskopp dubbed the vulnerability Bad Taste (CVE-2017-11421) and also released proof-of-concept (PoC) code on his blog to demonstrate the vulnerability. For more details about the Bad Taste vulnerability and its PoC u2014 Read More. 6. New Malware Exploits SambaCry to Hijack NAS Devices Despite being patched in late May, the SambaCry vulnerability is currently being leveraged by a new piece of malware to target the Internet of Things (IoT) devices, particularly Network Attached Storage (NAS) appliances. SambaCry is a 7-year-old critical remote code execution (RCE) vulnerability (CVE-2017-7494) in Samba networking software that could allow a hacker to remotely take full control of a vulnerable Linux and Unix machines. The flaw was discovered and patched two months ago, but researchers at Trend Micro warned that the flaw had been actively exploited by the SHELLBIND malware that mostly targets NAS devices used by small and medium-size businesses. For more detailed information on the SHELLBIND malware u2014 Read More. 7. Devil's Ivy u2014 Millions of Internet-Connected Devices At Risk This week, researchers at the IoT-focused security firm Senrio discovered a critical remotely exploitable vulnerability in an open-source software development library used by major IoT manufacturers that eventually left millions of smart devices vulnerable to hacking. Dubbed Devil's Ivy, the vulnerability (CVE-2017-9765) in the gSOAP toolkit (Simple Object Access Protocol) u2014 an advanced C/C++ auto-coding tool for developing XML Web services and XML application. The researchers also released proof-of-concept (PoC) video demonstrating the RCE on a security camera manufactured by Axis Communications. For more detailed information on the Devil's Ivy and PoC video u2014 Read More. 8. u201cUbuntu Linux for Windows 10 Releasedu201d u2014 Sounds So Weird? Downloading an entire operating system has just become as easy as downloading an application for Windows 10 users, as Microsoft last week announced the availability of popular Linux distro 'Ubuntu' in the Windows App Store. While the company announced its plans to launch Fedora and SUSE Linux as well on Windows Store, the company did not reveal exactly when its users can expect to see these two flavours of Linux distro on the App Store. For detailed information on how to install and run Ubuntu on Windows 10 u2014 Read More. 9. Over 70,000 Memcached Servers Vulnerable to Hacking It's been almost eight months since the Memcached developers have patched several critical remote code execution (RCE) vulnerabilities in the software, but tens of thousands of servers running Memcached application are still vulnerable. Cisco's Talos intelligence and research group last year discovered three critical RCE vulnerabilities in Memcached u2014 a moderhttps://thehackernews.com/2017/07/segway-hoverboard-hacking.htmln open-source and easily deployable distributed caching system that allows objects to be stored in memory. The vulnerability exposed major websites including Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Reddit, to hackers, but the team of researchers scanned the internet on two different occasions and found that over 70,000 servers are still vulnerable to the attacks, including ransomware attacks similar to the one that hit MongoDB databases in late December. For more in-depth information on the Memcached vulnerabilities u2014 Read More. 10. Tor Launches Bug Bounty Program for Public After its intention to launch a public bug bounty program in late December 2015, the Tor Project has finally launched a "Bug Bounty Program," encouraging hackers and security researchers to find and privately report bugs that could compromise the anonymity network. The bug bounty reports will be sent through HackerOne u2014 a startup that operates bug bounty programs for companies including Yahoo, Twitter, Slack, Dropbox, Uber, General Motors u2013 and even the U.S. Department of Defense for Hack the Pentagon initiative. For detailed information on bug bounty prices and types of valid vulnerabilities u2014 Read More. Other Important News This Week Besides these, there were lots of incidents happened this week, including: Microsoft's smart move to help take down cyber espionage campaigns conducted by "Fancy Bear" hacking group. A new credential stealing malware found being sold for as cheap as $7 on underground forums. Cisco patched a highly critical RCE vulnerability in its WebEx browser extension for Chrome and Firefox, which could allow attackers to execute malicious code on a victim's computer remotely. Windows 10 now let you Reset forgotten password directly from your computer's Lock Screen. Several critical vulnerabilities in Segway Ninebot miniPRO could allow hackers to remotely take "full control" over the hoverboard within range and leave riders out-of-control. Ashley Madison's parent company Ruby Corp has agreed to pay a total of $11.2 Million to roughly 37 million users whose personal details were exposed in a massive data breach two years ago." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bdf86cefc42b002934d6" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Turns Out New Petya is Not a Ransomware, Itu2019s a Destructive Wiper Malware", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/06/petya-ransomware-wiper-malware.html", "Date" : "2017-06-28T08:10:00-11:00", "Article" : "What if I say the Tuesday's devastating global malware outbreak was not due to any ransomware infection? Yes, the Petya ransomware attacks that began infecting computers in several countries, including Russia, Ukraine, France, India and the United States on Tuesday and demands $300 ransom was not designed with the intention of restoring the computers at all. According to a new analysis, the virus was designed to look like ransomware but was wiper malware that wipes computers outright, destroying all records from the targeted systems. Comae Technologies Founder Matt Suiche, who closely looked the operation of the malware, said after analyzing the virus, known as Petya, his team found that it was a "Wiper malware," not ransomware. Security experts even believe the real attack has been disguised to divert world's attention from a state-sponsored attack on Ukraine to a malware outbreak. "We believe the ransomware was, in fact, a lure to control the media narrative, especially after the WannaCry incident, to attract the attention on some mysterious hacker group rather than a national state attacker," Suiche writes. Is Petya Ransomware Faulty or Over-Smart? Petya is a nasty piece of malware that, unlike other traditional ransomware, does not encrypt files on a targeted system one by one. Instead, Petya reboots victims computers and encrypts the hard drive's master file table (MFT) and renders the master boot record (MBR) inoperable, restricting access to the full system by seizing information about file names, sizes, and location on the physical disk. Then Petya ransomware takes an encrypted copy of MBR and replaces it with its own malicious code that displays a ransom note, leaving computers unable to boot. However, this new variant of Petya does not keep a copy of replaced MBR, mistakenly or purposely, leaving infected computers unbootable even if victims get the decryption keys. Also, after infecting one machine, the Petya ransomware scans the local network and quickly infects all other machines (even fully-patched) on the same network, using EternalBlue SMB exploit, WMIC and PSEXEC tools. Don't Pay Ransom; You Wouldnu2019t Get Your Files Back So far, nearly 45 victims have already paid total $10,500 in Bitcoins in hope to get their locked files back, but unfortunately, they would not. It's because the email address, which was being set-up by the attackers to communicate with victims and send decryption keys, was suspended by the German provider shortly after the outbreak. Meaning, even if victims do pay the ransom, they will never recover their files. Kaspersky researchers also said same. "Our analysis indicates there is little hope for victims to recover their data. We have analyzed the high-level code of the encryption routine, and we have figured out that after disk encryption, the threat actor could not decrypt victimsu2019 disks," the security firm said. "To decrypt a victimu2019s disk threat actors need the installation ID. In previous versions of 'similar' ransomware like Petya/Mischa/GoldenEye this installation ID contained the information necessary for key recovery." If claims made by the researcher is correct that the new variant of Petya is a destructive malware designed to shut down and disrupt services around the world, the malware has successfully done its job. However, it is still speculation, but the virus primarily and massively targeted multiple entities in Ukraine, including the country's local metro, Kiev's Boryspil airport, electricity supplier, the central bank, and the state telecom. Other countries infected by the Petya virus included Russia, France, Spain, India, China, the United States, Brazil, Chile, Argentina, Turkey and South Korea. How Did Petya get into the Computers in the First Place? According to research conducted by Talos Intelligence, little-known Ukrainian firm MeDoc is likely the primary source of the yesterday's global ransomware outbreak. Researchers said the virus has possibly been spread through a malicious software update to a Ukrainian tax accounting system called MeDoc, though MeDoc has denied the allegations in a lengthy Facebook post. "At the time of updating the program, the system could not be infected with the virus directly from the update file," translated version of MeDoc post reads. "We can argue that users of the MEDoc system can not infect their PC with viruses at the time of updating the program." However, several security researchers and even Microsoft agreed with Talo's finding, saying MeDoc was breached and the virus was spread via updates." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bf746cefc42b00293546" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "How to decrypt Petya Ransomware for Free", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2016/04/ransomware-decrypt-tool.html", "Date" : "2016-04-12T04:19:00-11:00", "Article" : "Ransomware has risen dramatically since last few years and is currently one of the most popular threats on the Internet. The Ransomware infections have become so sophisticated with the time that victims end up paying ransom in order to get their critical and sensitive data back. But if you are infected with Petya Ransomware, there is good news for you. You can unlock your infected computer without paying the hefty ransom. Thanks to the Petya author who left a bug in the Ransomware code. What is Petya Ransomware? Petya is a nasty piece of ransomware that emerged two weeks ago and worked very differently from any other ransomware. The ransomware targets the victims by rebooting their Windows computers, encrypting the hard drive's master boot file, and rendering the master boot record inoperable. Also Read: How to Decrypt CoinVault and Bitcryptor Ransomware A master boot record (MBR) is the information in the first sector of any hard disk that identifies how and where an OS is located while a master boot file is a file on NTFS volumes that includes the name, size, and location of all other files. Once done, the infected PC restarts and the Petya ransomware code is booted rather than the operating system, displaying a ransom note that demands 0.9 Bitcoin (approx. US$381) in exchange for the decryption key to recover the system's files. Now, without the decryption password, the infected PC would not boot up, making all files on the startup disk inaccessible. However, a researcher who goes by the Twitter handle @leostone has developed a tool that generates the key Petya requires decrypting the master boot file. Here's How to Unlock your Petya-infected Files for Free The researcher discovered a weakness in the nasty malware's design after Petya infected his father-in-law's PC. According to security researcher Lawrence Abrams from the Bleeping Computer, the key generator tool developed by Leostone could unlock a Petya-encrypted PC in just 7 seconds. In order to use the Leostone's password generator tool, victims must remove the startup drive from the Petya affected computer and connect it to another Windows computer that's not infected. The victim then needs to extract data from the hard disk, specifically: the base-64-encoded 512 bytes that start at sector 55 (0x37h) with an offset of 0. the 64-bit-encoded 8-byte nonce from sector 54 (0x36) offset 33 (0x21). This data then needs to be used on this Web app (mirror site) created by Leostone to generate the key. The victim will then retrieve the key Petya used to decrypt the crucial file. Here's a Simple Tool to Unlock your Files For Free Since the Leostone's tool is not a straight-forward method, extracting the encrypted data is not easy for many victims. The good news is that Fabian Wosar, a separate researcher, has created a free tool called the Petya Sector Extractor that can be used to easily extract the data in seconds. In order to use Petya Sector Extractor, victims must run the tool on the uninfected Windows computer that is connected to the infected hard drive from the affected computer. Abrams provided this step-by-step tutorial that will walk victims through the entire process. Also Read: Here's How to Decrypt Hydracrypt & Umbrecrypt Ransomware This is a great solution to decrypt your infected files, but most likely, the Petya authors have already heard about this tool and are modifying their code to disable the solution. So, there is no guarantee the tool will continue to work indefinitely." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657216cefc42b002938c3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Complex Petya-Like Ransomware Outbreak Worse than WannaCry", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/complex-petya-like-ransomware-outbreak-worse-than-wannacry/126561/", "Date" : "June 27, 2017 , 4:06 pm", "Article" : "Join Kaspersky Lab and Comae Technologies Thursday June 29, 2017 at 10 a.m. Eastern time for a webinar u201cThe Inside Story of the Petya/ExPetr Ransomware.u201d Click here to attend. The attackers behind todayu2019s global ransomware outbreak are spreading the malware using a modified version of the leaked NSA EternalBlue exploit and two Windows utilities to move laterally on local networks, adding layers of complexity to this attack to where it could dwarf WannaCry in short order. Unlike WannaCry, this new ransomware sample contains no killswitch and is burrowing through corporate networks and endpoints, forcing workers at a number of locations to pull their machines from the internet. Critical industries and services have been affected since the attack began this morning in Russia, Ukraine and then throughout Europe, including the radiation monitoring station for the crippled Chernobyl nuclear power plant and pharmaceutical giant Merck and Co.u2019s MSD operation in the United Kingdom. This augments a growing list of victims that also includes Danish shipping giants Maersk, Ukraineu2019s central bank, the countryu2019s Borispol Airport in Kiev and dozens of other victims there, along with SaintGobain, a leading manufacturer in France and Russian oil company Rosneft and steel manufacturer Evraz. Complicating matters is the fact German email provider Posteo, which hosts the email address provided in the ransom note, wowsmith123456@posteo[.]net has shut down the attackeru2019s account. Victims are being advised not to pay because there is no way for the attacker to deliver the decryption key even if the $300 demand in Bitcoin is arranged.  u201cThere is no killswitch as of yet, and reports say the ransom email is invalid so paying up is not recommended,u201d said researcher Sean Dillon of RiskSense. The ransomware behaves similarly to a year-old strain called Petya, which encrypts a computeru2019s Master File Table along with a number of file types. Experts are divided on whether this is Petya, a variant, or a knock-off, but that matters little to victims worldwide. u201cThis appears to be a complex attack which involves several attack vectors,u201d Kaspersky Lab said in a statement. The company published its analysis of the attack this afternoon. The gravity of this attack is multiplied by the fact that even servers patched against the SMBv1 vulnerability exploited by EternalBlue can be successfully attacked, provided there is at least one Windows server on the network vulnerable to the flaw patched in March in MS17-010. The attackers have built in the capability to infect patched local machines using the PSEXEC Windows SysInternals utility to carry out a pass-the-hash attack. Some researchers have also documented usage of the Windows Management Instrumentation (WMIC) command line scripting interface to spread the ransomware locally. Organizations are being advised to disable both utilities and apply MS17-010 if they havenu2019t done so already. u201cIf I run the attack on my machine and Iu2019m a domain admin, it uses my credentials to authenticate to other machines on the network,u201d said Matthew Hickey, founder of My Hacker House. u201cIn an enterprise environment, if it gets one privileged user, one domain admin, this will spread across the network even to patched machines.u201d Unlike WannaCry, this attack does not have an internet-facing worming component, and only scans internal subnets looking for other machines to infect. u201cI think this is actually worse than WannaCry from that perspective alone,u201d said Jake Williams, founder of Rendition Infosec. Williams said that this version of EternalBlue has been u201ccleaned up,u201d and that itu2019s not a direct copy-and-paste of the original leaked by the ShadowBrokers in April along with the Fuzzbunch platform. Once a server is compromised by EternalBlue, the attacker is in as a system user. u201cYouu2019re basically in God mode on the machine,u201d Williams said. u201cFrom there, you can take the local admin account and PSEXEC from there to another machine if the machines share the same credentials (which would have been set up by an admin). If theyu2019re the same, youu2019re going to be successful. It passes the authentication hash and the attacker can begin pivoting around the network, even to patched machines. Some thought went into this and how to improve on WannaCryu2019s distribution method.u201d Researchers at Cisco, also confirmed by Kaspersky Lab, have identified a Ukrainian tax accounting package called MeDoc as a potential infection vector. Both companiesu2019 researchers said some infections could be linked to an attack against MeDocu2019s software update systems. Early reports also suspected that some infections were spread via phishing emails with infected Excel documents exploiting a CVE-2017-0199, a Microsoft Office/WordPad remote code execution vulnerability. Experts such as Dillon and Hickey were concerned about this type of virulent outbreak leveraging EternalBlue that did not include a WannaCry-like killswitch. Hickey said a sample he examined arrived as a DLL wrapped in crypto that also includes anti-analysis capabilities, something that Williams confirmed. u201cAs soon as I saw MS17-010, I began banging the drum quite loudly about exactly this type of incident,u201d Hickey said. u201cEven though itu2019s been patched, it only takes one missing patch on a critical server that will be the Achilles heel of a network.u201d Avecto VP Andrew Avanessian said there may be copycat malware for the foreseeable future. u201cCyber criminals are taking a preexisting piece of malware and changed some of the payload elements of it. With the release of different hacking techniques from the NSA, nation-state hacking capabilities are now in the hands of novice cybercriminals,u201d Avanessian said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657246cefc42b002938ca" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Second Global Ransomware Outbreak Under Way", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/second-global-ransomware-outbreak-under-way/126549/", "Date" : "June 27, 2017 , 11:34 am", "Article" : "Join Kaspersky Lab and Comae Technologies Thursday June 29, 2017 at 10 a.m. Eastern time for a webinar u201cThe Inside Story of the Petya/ExPetr Ransomware.u201d Click here to attend. A global WannaCry-like ransomware outbreaku2013which began in Russia and Ukraine and spread across Europeu2013is being reported today. The attack is locking down networks in a number of industries, including energy, transportation, shipping and financial. Reports suggest that ransomware is similar in scope and intensity to WannaCry and could be spreading using the same leaked NSA EternalBlue exploit that WannaCry used in early May to infect machines in more than 150 countries. Security experts are still trying to determine what type of ransomware is being distributed. Early theories pointed at Petya while others say the ransomware may be a new strain yet to be identified. Kaspersky Lab malware analyst Vyacheslav Zakorzhevsky said infections were traced to a u201cnew ransomware we havenu2019t seen before.u201d Matt Suiche, founder of cyber security firm Comae Technologies, said he saw evidence of infections through SMB, the same vector used by EternalBlue and the accompanying DoublePulsar rootkit; the vulnerability was patched in March by Microsoft in MS17-010.  The impact of the attacks are difficult to quantify as they continue. However, Danish transport and energy company Maersk is reporting on its website: u201cWe can confirm that Maersk IT systems are down across multiple sites and business units due to a cyber attack.u201d  Russian oil producer Rosneft said that it has been hit with a u201cpowerfulu201d cyberattack.   Reuters is reporting that the Ukrainian central bank has also been hit by a similar cyberattack along with several other financial institutions. u201cAs a result of these cyber attacks these banks are having difficulties with client services and carrying out banking operations,u201d the central bank said in a statement, according to the Reuters report. Ukrainian officials tweeted images of infected computers at the state-owned Ukrenergo and Kyivenergo power companies. The ransom note reads: u201cWe guarantee that you can recover all your files safely and easily. All you need to do is submit the payment and purchase the decryption key.u201d u00a0Based on current value of bitcoins, the ransom is approximately $300. Meanwhile, the Facebook page of Kievu2019s Borispol Airport posted a statement: u201cOur IT services are working together to resolve the situation. There may be delays in flights due to the situationu2026 The official Site of the airport and the flight schedules are not working.u201d u00a0 (This report will be updated throughout the day as the story develops.) " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657566cefc42b00293929" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Devilish ONI Attacks in Japan Use Wiper to Cover Tracks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/devilish-oni-attacks-in-japan-use-wiper-to-cover-tracks/128733/", "Date" : "November 2, 2017 , 9:44 am", "Article" : "NotPetya has shown the way for attackers who want use ransomware as a cover for a deeper incursion. The latest example is a wave of wiper attacks hitting organizations in Japan for possibly as long as the last nine months. Researchers at Cybereason this week said they had detected targeted attacks against Japanese enterprises leaving behind ONI ransomware which was used as part of an operation to encrypt hundreds of machines inside these organizations. u201cForensic artifacts found on the compromised machines show that the attackers made a significant attempt to cover their operation,u201d Cybereason said in its report. A new bootkit was also found during these attacks called MBR-ONI used by the same attackers. The bootkit borrowed a page from the recent Bad Rabbit attacks and built its ransomware around the DiskCryptor disk encryption utility. The researchers believe MBR-ONI comes from the same attackers behind ONI given the two pieces of malware were used in the same attacks and the ransomware note contains the same email address. The attackers are gaining a foothold via spear-phishing emails spreading malicious Office documents that drop a remote access Trojan called Ammyy Admin. The RAT enables the attackers to steal credentials and gain lateral movement on a targetu2019s network. u201cUsing the Ammyy Admin RAT and other hacking tools, the attackers mapped out the internal networks, harvested credentials and moved laterally, ultimately compromising critical assets, including the domain controller (DC), to gain full control over the network,u201d Cybereason said. The final stage of these attacks involves the distribution of ONI via an inserted Group Policy Object, as well as the widespread deletion of logs. u201cUsing autorun persistence, the group policy would fetch a batch script from the [domain controller] server, which would wipe Windowsu2019 event logs clean in attempt to cover the attackersu2019 tracks and avoid log-based detection,u201d Cybereason said. u201cIn addition, the ONI binary file was also copied from the DC and executed, encrypting a large array of files.u201d The attackers were sparse in their use of the master boot record bootkit, saving it for Active Directory and file servers. u201cWe suspect that MBR-ONI was used as a wiper to conceal the operationu2019s true motive,u201d Cybereason said. ONI translates to u201cdevilu201d in Japanese and is the file extension appended to encrypted files. Itu2019s also in the email address found in the ransomware note. The ONI string is found in other ransom notes and email addresses throughout these campaigns. Making these attacks more desperate is the attackersu2019 apparent use of the leaked NSA exploit EternalBlue for lateral movement. The exploit was made public by the ShadowBrokers earlier this year and used by WannaCry to spread to machines worldwide. u201cDue to the data corruption and robust log wiping, it cannot be confirmed with absolute certainty, however, it was found thatu00a0theu00a0MS17-010u00a0security update (released in March 2017) was not installed on the compromised machines at the time that attacks took place (July-September 2017),u201d Cybereason said, adding that the compromised environments had SMBv1 enabled globally. NotPetya, which hit organizations in the Ukraine primarily starting in June, was a similar attack which spread wiper malware under the guise of ransomware. Cybereason said the MBR-ONI malware makes it impossible to recover an encrypted disk, unlike NotPetya. u201cWe suspect that the attackers never intended to provide recovery for the encrypted machines. Instead, the program was meant to be used as a wiper to cover the attackersu2019 footprints and conceal the attacku2019s motive,u201d Cybereason said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36575f6cefc42b00293939" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "EternalRomance Exploit Found in Bad Rabbit Ransomware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/eternalromance-exploit-found-in-bad-rabbit-ransomware/128645/", "Date" : "October 26, 2017 , 1:53 pm", "Article" : "One day after clear ties were established between the Bad Rabbit ransomware attacks and this summeru2019s NotPetya outbreak, researchers at Cisco today strengthened that bond disclosing that the leaked NSA exploit EternalRomance was used to spread the malware on compromised networks. This contradicts earlier reports that neither EternalRomance nor EternalBlue were part of this weeku2019s ransomware attack that was confined primarily to Russia and the Ukraine. Cisco said in an ongoing analysis of Bad Rabbit that the implementation of the EternalRomance exploit used in Bad Rabbit has been modified. u201cThis is a different implementation of the EternalRomance exploit,u201d said Martin Lee, technical lead of security research for Ciscou2019s research arm, Talos. u201cItu2019s different code from what we saw used in NotPetya, but exploiting the same vulnerability in a slightly different implementation.u201d EternalRomance is one of a number of Windows exploits leaked in April by the ShadowBrokers, a still unidentified group that has been leaking Equation Group exploits for more than a year. Many of those attacks, however, were mitigated in MS17-010, a Microsoft security bulletin that included patches for vulnerabilities in the SMBv1 protocol abused by these exploits. The publicly available exploits affect older versions of Windows (XP through 7 on the client side and 2003-2008 on Windows Server). EternalRomance is a remote code execution attack that exploits CVE-2017-0145. What exacerbated the WannaCry and NotPetya attacks was the fact that many organizations had SMBv1 exposed to the internet rather than solely internally. This allowed WannaCry in particular to worm out to the internet and affect machines outside a compromised network. u201cThis exploit was written to remotely install and launch an SMB backdoor. At the core of this exploit is au00a0type confusion vulnerability leading to anu00a0attacker offset controlledu00a0arbitrary heap write,u201d Microsoft said in an analysis of EternalRomance published in June. u201cAs with almost anyu00a0heap corruptionu00a0exploit, the attacker must know or control the layout of the heap to consistently succeed.u201d Cisco said in its look at Bad Rabbit this week that it found a type confusion attempt similar to EternalRomance. u201cWe can be fairly confident that BadRabbit includes an EternalRomance implementation used to overwrite a kernelu2019s session security context to enable it to launch remote services, while in Nyetya it was used to install the DoublePulsar backdoor,u201d Cisco said. u201cBoth actions are possible due to the fact that EternalRomance allows the attacker to read/write arbitrary data into the kernel memory space.u201d DoublePulsar is a post-exploitation memory-based kernel payload that hooks onto x86 and 64-bit systems and allows an attacker to execute any raw shellcode payload they wish. It was part of the Fuzzbunch exploit platform leaked by the Shadowbrokers. u201cThis is a full ring0 payload that gives you full control over the system and you can do what you want to it,u201d said Sean Dillon, senior security analyst at RiskSense. Dillon was the first to reverse-engineer a DoublePulsar payload, and published hisu00a0analysisu00a0in April. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab on Wednesday confirmed the link between Bad Rabbit and NotPetya, finding similarities in the hashing algorithm used in the two attacks, as well as some of the same domains. It also steals credentials by leveraging the Windows utility WMIC. Unlike NotPetya, Bad Rabbit is not a wiper attack, Kaspersky Lab confirmed today. Ciscou2019s Lee also confirmed this is not a wiper. u201cThe researchers also found that the Bad Rabbit ransomware code doesnu2019t contain the kind of mistakes that could be used to decrypt victimsu2019 files and data. There is no way to decrypt information without the attackersu2019 private key,u201d Kaspersky Lab said today. u201cHaving said that, the experts have found a flaw in the code of dispci.exe, which means that the malware doesnu2019t wipe the generated password from the memory u2013 so there is a slim possibility to extract it.u201d Kaspersky Lab also said that it saw traces of the attack dating back to July starting with the compromise of high-profile media sites in Russia including Interfax. Government agencies in Turkey, including the metro in Kiev and a major airport were also serving the malware as were other sits in Turkey, Germany and the U.S.u2014about 200 in all. The attackers, however, pulled the malicious code once Bad Rabbit was made public. The malware was spreading primarily through drive-by downloads where the hacked sites were serving up a phony Flash Player installer that executes a dropper on the compromised machine that reaches out to the attackeru2019s domain for the rest of the attack. The malware relied on user action to trigger the executable and to grant it excessive permissions through a Windows UAC prompt. While ExPetr was wiper malware in the guise of a ransomware attack, Bad Rabbit installs a malicious executable called dispci.exe which is derived from the free and open source disk encryption software called DiskCryptor. u201cThe malware modifies the Master Boot Record (MBR) of the infected systemu2019s hard drive to redirect the boot process into the malware authors code for the purposes of displaying a ransom note,u201d Cisco said. u201cThe ransom note that is displayed following the system reboot is very similar to the ransom notes displayed by other ransomware variants, namely Petya, that we have observed in other notable attacks this year.u201d The attackers are demanding 0.05 Bitcoin or $298 USD at todayu2019s exchange rate in exchange for the decryption key that will unlock their hard drives. Each victim is assigned a unique payment wallet, simplifying the process for recovery for victims and profit for the attackers. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657646cefc42b00293945" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Bad Rabbit Linked to ExPetr/Not Petya Attacks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/bad-rabbit-linked-to-expetrnot-petya-attacks/128611/", "Date" : "October 25, 2017 , 2:03 pm", "Article" : "A link has been confirmed between the Bad Rabbit ransomware outbreak detected yesterday in major organizations in Russia and Ukraine and this summeru2019s ExPetr/Not Petya attacks. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab said there are u201cclear tiesu201d between the two attacks though one major piece of the puzzle is missing with Bad Rabbit. Like WannaCry before it, one of ExPetru2019s propagation methods was the leaked NSA exploit EternalBlue, which triggered a SMBv1 vulnerability patched by Microsoft early this year and allowed it to worm out to the internet. Kaspersky Lab researchers said they have found no evidence of EternalBlueu2014or EternalRomance, another NSA-developed attack that was publicly disclosed by the ShadowBrokers and used in the ExPetr attacksu2014in yesterdayu2019s attack. u201cThe hashing algorithm used in the Bad Rabbit attack is similar to the one used by ExPetr. Further, experts have found that both attacks use the same domains; and similarities in the respective source codes indicate that the new attack is linked to the creators of ExPetr,u201d Kaspersky Lab said in a statement. u201cLike ExPetr, Bad Rabbit tries to grab credentials from the system memory and spread within the corporate network by WMIC. However, researchers have found neither EternalBlue nor EternalRomance exploits in the Bad Rabbit attack; both of them were used in ExPetr.u201d Researchers said that the seeds for the Bad Rabbit attacks were sewn in July beginning with the compromise of a number of high-profile sites, including news organizations in Russia such as Interfax. A tweet, below, from Kaspersky Lab Global Research and Analysis Team director Costin Raiu shows a number of media and government sites not only in Russia and Ukraine, but also Turkey, Germany and the U.S., were compromisedu2014some 200 targets in allu2014and serving up the malware.  u201cAll of the attacks took place on October 24, and no new attacks have been detected since then,u201d Kaspersky Lab said. u201cResearchers note that once the infection became more widespread and security companies started to investigate, the attackers immediately removed the malicious code they had added to the hacked websites.u201d The malware was spreading primarily through drive-by downloads where the compromised sites were serving up a phony Flash Player installer that executes a dropper on the compromised machine that reaches out to the attackeru2019s domain for the rest of the attack. No exploits were used in the attack and the malware relied on user action to trigger the executable and to grant it excessive permissions through a Windows UAC prompt. While ExPetr was wiper malware in the guise of a ransomware attack, Bad Rabbit installs a malicious executable called dispci.exe which is derived from the free and open source disk encryption software called DiskCryptor. u201cIt acts as the disk encryption module which also installs the modified bootloader and prevents the normal boot-up process of the infected machine,u201d Kaspersky Lab said on Tuesday. Victims see a ransom note very similar to the ExPetr and Petya ransom notes. The attackers are demanding 0.05 Bitcoin or $276 USD at todayu2019s exchange rate in exchange for the decryption key that will unlock their hard drives. Each victim is assigned a unique payment wallet, simplifying the process for recovery for victims and profit for the attackers. It also appears the malware attempts to use open SMB shares to spread internally on networks, but does not have the worming capabilities of its predecessors to spread to other machines on the internet. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657676cefc42b0029394c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "BadRabbit Ransomware Attacks Hitting Russia, Ukraine", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/badrabbit-ransomware-attacks-hitting-russia-ukraine/128593/", "Date" : "October 24, 2017 , 3:37 pm", "Article" : "A ransomware attack has put a halt to business inside a handful of Russian media outlets and a number of major organizations in the Ukraine, including Kievu2019s public transportation system and the countryu2019s Odessa airport. The attacks are known as Bad Rabbit and harken back to the ExPetr/NotPetya attacks of this summer which also concentrated in Ukraine and Russia, but instead spread wiper malware used in the Petya attacks of 2016. Todayu2019s outbreak is spreading via drive-by download attacks from legitimate news sites, according to researchers at Kaspersky Lab who published an analysis on Securelist. Russiau2019s Interfax is one such agency reporting its services are down because of the attack. Host sites are infected with a dropper in the guise of a phony Adobe Flash Player installer. Kaspersky Lab said it has observed victims in Turkey and Germany as well, counting almost 200 targets. There are no exploits involved in this attack, Kaspersky Lab said, and victims must manually launch the downloaded file namedu00a0install_flash_player.exe. The executable requires elevated privileges to run, and uses a Windows UAC prompt to obtain them, again with the victimu2019s permission. If the executable runs as expected, it grabs a file-encrypting malware called infpub.dat, Kaspersky Lab said, adding that the file may be capable of brute-forcing NTLM login credentials for Windows machines with pseudorandom IP addresses. u201cThis ransomware infects devices through a number of hacked Russian media websites. Based on our investigation, this has been a targeted attack against corporate networks, using methods similar to those used during the ExPetr attack,u201d Kaspersky Lab said in a statement. u201cHowever, we cannot confirm it is related to ExPetr.u00a0We continue our investigation.u201d ExPetr emerged in late June and was quickly scrutinized as more dangerous than WannaCry, which spread globally just a month earlier. Like WannaCry, the attackers behind ExPetr used the leaked NSA exploit EternalBlue to spread the malware. In the early hours of the attack, Danish shipping giants Maersk and Russian oil company Rosneft were reporting infections and impacts to their respective businesses. It was eventually determined that ExPetr was not a ransomware attack, but a wiper. The infpub.dat file prominent in todayu2019s attack will also install another malicious executable called dispci.exe. It creates tasks in the registry to launch the executable; the tasks are named after the dragons in Game of Thrones: Viserion, Drogon and Rhaegal. Thereu2019s also a reference to a Game of Thrones character GrayWorm in the code. u201cThe executableu00a0dispci.exeu00a0appears to be derived from the code base of the legitimate utility DiskCryptor,u201d Kaspersky Lab said. u201cIt acts as the disk encryption module which also installs the modified bootloader and prevents the normal boot-up process of the infected machine.u201d  DiskCryptor is a freely available open source full disk encryption system for Windows, and can be used to encrypt a hard drive or partitions. Victims are presented with a ransom demand of 0.05 Bitcoin, a timer counting down toward an hour when the price goes up.  Researchers at ESET, meanwhile, have said that the disk encryption executable can be spread via SMB. The Mimikatz pen-testing tool is also aunched on the compromised machine and steals credentials in addition to a list of hardcoded usernames and passwords. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36576b6cefc42b00293953" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "One Year After WannaCry: A Fundamentally Changed Threat Landscape", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/one-year-after-wannacry-a-fundamentally-changed-threat-landscape/132047/", "Date" : "May 17, 2018 , 11:25 am", "Article" : "Itu2019s been one year this week since the ransomware known as WannaCry infected more than 200,000 machines in 150 countries, causing billions of dollars in damages and grinding global business to a halt. The speed and scale of the attack u2013 helped along by leaked National Security Agency hacking tools u2013 was obviously notable, but itu2019s WannaCryu2019s legacy that resonates today. The cyber-landscape has fundamentally changed, with threat actors increasing almost exponentially in their capabilities, sophistication and ambition. u201cWannaCry changed the cybersecurity game, not just through its outsized impact; it made waves because of its outsized influence on the cyber-threat landscape,u201d Check Point researchers said in a blog breaking down the implications. u201cMarking a turning point in the cybersecurity environment, we were looking at the first global-scaled, multi-vectored cyberattack powered by state-sponsored tools. WannaCry marked a new generationu2026of cyberattacks.u201d In the year since WannaCry, ransomware has given way to cryptomining as the go-to payload for cybercriminals. Cryptojacking in fact increased 8,500 percent in the last quarter of 2017, and made up 16 percent of all online attacks, according to Juniper Networks analysis. But ransomware isnu2019t waning: Numbers from Avast show that since the original attack, there have been more than 176 million attempted new WannaCry attacks globally. We talked to several security researchers about whatu2019s changed in the past year. Arms Race So what does u201cfundamental changeu201d actually mean? For one, the use of nation-state-developed hacking tools has become widespread. WannaCry was the direct result of the Shadow Brokers hacker group stealing and then leaking exploits developed by the NSA. One of them, EternalBlue, was used in WannaCry, and just six weeks after that, NotPetya used the same exploit in its infamous attack. The genie was out of the bottle, and quickly, too. EternalBlue and additional weapons from the trove have cropped up everywhere since then, in multiple campaigns spreading banking trojans, other kinds of ransomware and, this year, cryptomining code. Just recently, the SamSam ransomware attack that shut down the city of Atlanta and cost it $5 million in damages and clean-up costs relied on DoublePulsar u2013 another NSA-developed exploit in use now across the internet. u201cIn the past, cybercriminals traditionally used simplistic, homegrown tools for their hacking activities,u201d Check Point researchers noted. u201cWannaCry marked the shift toward using military-grade weapons, hacking tools that are powerful enough for a national cyber-defense agency to use on international cyber-warfare.u201d Bigger, Multi-Vector Attacks As befits the use of industrial-strength tools, WannaCry also demonstrated the potential for severe, large-scale cyber-attacks. Campaigns today go after ever-greater paydays, and the space is attracting well-funded criminal organizations looking to develop lucrative hacking operations. The surge in ransomware outlines this: Check Point analysis shows that in 2015, ransomware attacks caused $325 million in damage. Last year, attacks were up 15-fold, costing $5 billion in damages. u201cEven the most sophisticated of these ransomware attacks emerging today are just the tip of the spear,u201d Derek Manky, global security strategist at Fortinetu2019s FortiGuard Labs, told Threatpost. u201cCybercriminals are adopting new attack strategies, such as those used by Hajime and Hide-and-Seek, to accelerate both the scale and success of attacks.u201d In tandem with this, there has been a sea-change in attack vectors. WannaCry established the concept of the u201cransomwormu201d u2013 code thatu2019s able to spread through cloud networks, remote office servers and network endpoints alike, needing only one entry point in order to infect the entire system. u201cThis multi-level approach allowed WannaCry to easily overwhelm companies that followed the usual security strategy of picking their favorite product from different vendors for each entry point,u201d Check Point researchers said. However, since then, there has been an evolution towards more sophisticated variations of this approach. u201cThese new variants are transitioning away from traditional ransomworm-based attacks, which require constant communication back to their controller, and replacing them with automated, self-learning strategies, potentially turning malicious ransomworms into u2018ransom-swarmsu2019,u201d Manky said. u201cFuture attacks are likely to leverage things like swarm intelligence to take humans out of the loop entirely in order to accelerate attacks to digital speeds.u201d He added, u201cCybercriminals have been using an attack-on-all-fronts strategy that has been especially effective.u201d A Physical Threat The stakes are higher than ever before as well: WannaCry demonstrated that cyberattacks can introduce real, physical risks into the equation. It famously hit Britainu2019s National Health Service (NHS), and attacked a wealth of medical devices, like medical imaging machines. u201cPatients in the U.K. lost valuable medical response time (and it is very likely that one could honestly say WannaCry ended up causing mortal harm to some),u201d Bob Rudis, chief security data scientist at Rapid7, told Threatpost. Rapid7 research recently determined that WannaCry was still the sixth most-prevalent threat in the first quarter of 2018. u201cWannaCry and NotPetya both ended up causing hundreds of millions of dollars in damages to medical production lines and other business processes.u201d The ability to issue an epic beat-down on connected devices beyond the PC has become part of the new normal thanks to WannaCry u2013 a state of affairs thatu2019s set to worsen. Brian NeSmith, CEO and co-founder at Arctic Wolf Networks, told us that, essentially, every company and every device is a target. u201cFor industries like healthcare, ransomware puts the lives of people at risk,u201d he said. u201cRansomware is likely to evolve and expand to IoT devices and wreak even more havoc. Today, the focus is on PCs, but tomorrow, everything from machinery, power control systems, industrial sensors and even thermostats will be targets. In the case of machinery, it could impact the safety and well-being of workers, dramatically increasing the stakes beyond just the ransom money.u201d Increased Awareness WannaCryu2019s legacy is not all bad news: the event has also increased cyber-awareness, and thatu2019s never a bad thing. u201cThe biggest impact WannaCry had (in the UK at least) was to take ransomware from the domain of IT and security professionals to the boardroom, the newsroom and Parliament,u201d Oscar Arean, technical operations manager at Databarracks, told us. u201cParticularly in small and medium-sized enterprises, there hasnu2019t been adequate investment in awareness, and thereu2019s been a lax attitude to the risks of running systems beyond end-of-life. The benefit of WannaCry is that now, when an IT manager at a small business asks for budget for systems upgrades from their CFO and the board u2013 they can point to the example of the NHS to justify the expense.u201d Rishi Bhargava, co-founder at Demisto, told Threatpost that the awareness level was particularly raised in healthcare environments. u201cWannaCry was unique because this was the first large ransomware attack targeted at the healthcare vertical and affected not only computers, but also many medical devices like MRI machines,u201d Bhargava said via email. u201cOverall, WannaCry did not fundamentally change the security tools or the approaches or peopleu2019s perception, but it did raise awareness of the best practices in healthcare organizations.u201d As Much as Things Changeu2026 Despite better awareness, poor security practices (including a lack of simple patch updates) continue to plague companies. Overall, a Check Point survey found that just 3 percent of U.S. organizations are prepared for another WannaCry-like attack. u201cCompanies need to make sure they are doing the basics,u201d NeSmith said. u201cDeploy patches, update antivirus clients and train employees on security best practices. The defense strategy needs to define how a ransomware infection will be contained and how it will be remediated. This will require a smooth process for detection, triage and execution of the remediation plan.u201d Patching works, after all. u201cWhile WannaCry tore through organizations like the NHS, companies that kept their systems updated with the latest patches, performed backups and took proactive security measures emerged unscathed,u201d Ken Spinner, vice president of global field engineering at Varonis, told Threatpost. u201cPlenty of others heard the wake-up call but hit the u2018snoozeu2019 button. Hope is not a strategy to prevent the next major cyberattack from hitting your company, yet some are mistaking good luck for sound preparation and effort.u201d Mounir Hahad, head of Juniper Threat Labs at Juniper Networks, laid out the basic best practices for us: patch; back up critical data and test your backups regularly; segment the network and make sure access to different segments is offered only on a business need; do not give admin privileges to all users if not needed; mount remote file systems on a system only if needed; and disable SMBv1 and make sure SMBv2 is not exposed to the internet. SMB, which is Microsoftu2019s file-sharing system, contains the vulnerability that EternalBlue, EternalRomance and other NSA tools exploit. u201cEvery board of directors should be asking its CISO about the companyu2019s backup strategy,u201d Hahad told Threatpost, adding that there are also 2.3 million observable devices left out there with SMBv1 exposed to the internet. u201cA ransomware attack should be a blip on the radar that wastes peopleu2019s time to restore from backups, not a week-long debacle of trying to restore service and deciding whether to pay the ransom or not.u201d He added, u201cThe same mitigation techniques that have been recommended over and over again are still relevant and effective to minimize the impacts of a ransomware attack, but it comes down to actually implementing them.u201d u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36576e6cefc42b00293959" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "DHS Alert on Dragonfly APT Contains IOCs, Rules Likely to Trigger False Positives", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/dhs-alert-on-dragonfly-apt-contains-iocs-rules-likely-to-trigger-false-positives/128572/", "Date" : "October 23, 2017 , 10:52 am", "Article" : "A joint Technical Alert, TA17u2013293A, released over the weekend by the FBI and Department of Homeland Security describing the activities of a Russian APT may contain signatures and rules likely to trigger false positives in some security systems. The alert, made available Saturday morning, dissects the activity of the Dragonfly APT, also known as Energetic Bear, Crouching Yeti and a host of other nicknames. The group targets energy sector and other critical utilities including nuclear, as well as government agencies and manufacturing. DHS goes into great detail about the groupu2019s activities, how it infiltrates organizations and what itu2019s after. It also provides a laundry list of network- and host-based signatures, as well as a YARA ruleset for the malware used by this group. YARA expert Florian Roth warned within hours of the release that some of the IOCs and YARA rules were flawed and could cause a wave of unnecessary alerts for admins.  This situation harkens back to the Grizzly Steppe report of last December which connected the Russian-speaking APT Sofacy, or Fancy Bear, to attacks against a number of 2016 election-related targets. That report too was criticized, and admins were advised by a number of security companies not to use the indicators because of the potential for false positives. Some of the indicators in the December report associated with Sofacy included rules for Yahoo email, for example, which some groups use as a means for command and control communication. This weeku2019s report, Roth points out, contains a few similar issues, most notably around PsExec, a well-known Windows sysinternals utility. Roth said there were two signed hashes for PsExec among the IOCs and YARA rules that would trigger false positives. u201cThis is no problem, as long as a human reads and pre-qualifies the IOCs before bringing them into production,u201d Roth wrote in an analysis published on Medium. u201cThe two listed versions of PsExec could be an indicator of compromise if an organisation forbids the use of PsExec or can be certain that the listed versions are not used by the system administrators (both is rather unlikely).u201d Roth has redone the YARA rules and made them available to anyone. u201cWe do not recommend the usage of the original rules in a production environment, because they will result in false positives,u201d said Costin Raiu, director of Kaspersky Labu2019s Global Research and Analysis Team. u201cInstead, we recommend Florianu2019s rules, which are of much higher quality, after his polishing.u201d  The joint technical alert meanwhile warns that the U.S. government is aware of victims in the targeted industries. It describes the stages of these respective attacks, characterized by the compromise of smaller, less-protected networks and lateral movement toward more high-value networks within energy in particular. u201cBased on malware analysis and observed IOCs, DHS has confidence that this campaign is still ongoing, and threat actors are actively pursuing their ultimate objectives over a long-term campaign,u201d the alert said. The alert said that since May, victims in these industries have been targeted and some compromised. The goal, the alert said, is most often espionage. Groups targeting these industries are hoping to learn more about these networks and industrial processes for either financial gain or to disrupt them in the event of a conflict. u201cThis campaign comprises two distinct categories of victims: staging and intended targets. The initial victims are peripheral organizations such as trusted third party suppliers with less secure networks,u201d the alert said. u201cThe threat actor uses the staging targetsu2019 networks as pivot points and malware repositories when targeting their final intended victims. The ultimate objective of the cyber threat actors is to compromise organizational networks.u201d The alert points out that the APT uses spear phishing and watering hole attacks to compromise victimsu2019 machines. The group also has a number of endpoint and ICS exploits at its disposal, and is intent on gathering credentials that can be used in further attacks. The use of staging targets, most in the supply chain, extends a growing trend of these types of attacks that peaked earlier this year with the use of Ukrainian software MeDoc to spread the NotPetya wiper malware. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657a56cefc42b002939aa" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Mamba Ransomware Encrypts Hard Drives Rather Than Files", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/mamba-ransomware-encrypts-hard-drives-rather-than-files/120730/", "Date" : "September 20, 2016 , 3:29 pm", "Article" : "Just when we thought ransomwareu2019s evolution had peaked, a new strain has been discovered that forgoes the encryption of individual files, and instead encrypts a machineu2019s hard drive. The malware, called Mamba, has been found on machines in Brazil, the United States and India, according to researchers at Morphus Labs in Brazil. It was discovered by the company in response to an infection at a customer in the energy sector in Brazil with subsidiaries in the U.S. and India. Renato Marinho, a researcher with Morphus Labs, told Threatpost that the ransomware is likely being spread via phishing emails. Once it infects a machine, it overwrites the existing Master Boot Record with a custom MBR, and from there, encrypts the hard drive. u201cMamba encrypts the whole partitions of the disk,u201d Marinho said. u201cIt uses a disk-level cryptography and not a traditional strategy of other ransomware that encrypts individual files.u201d The malware is a Windows threat, and it prevents the infected computeru2019s operating system from booting up with out a password, which is the decryption key. The victims are presented with a ransom note demanding one Bitcoin per infected host in exchange for the decryption key and it also includes an ID number for the compromised computer, and an email address where to request the key. Mamba joins Petya as ransomware targeting computers at the disk level. Petya encrypted the Master File Table on machines it infected. Mamba, however, uses an open source disk encryption tool called DiskCryptor to lock up the compromised hard drives. Petya was a game-changer among ransomware families. It spread initially among German companies targeting human resources offices. Emails were sent that contained a link to a Dropbox file that installed the ransomware. The malware showed the victim a phony CHKDSK process while it encrypted the Master File Table in the background. Researchers quickly analyzed Petyau2019s inner workings and by understanding its behavior, were able to build a decryptor shortly after the first infections were disclosed. More than a month after Petya surfaced, a variant was found that included a new installer. If the installer failed to install Petya on the compromised machine, it installed a less troublesome ransomware strain known as Mischa. Petya included an executable requesting admin privileges that caused Windows to flash a UAC prompt; if the victim declined at the prompt, the malware would install Mischa instead of Petya. Mischa behaves like most of the ransomware many are familiar with. Once the victim executes link sent in a spam or phishing email, the malware encrypts local files and demands a ransom of 1.93 Bitcoin, or about $875 to recover the scrambled files. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657b76cefc42b002939c7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "PyRoMine Uses NSA Exploit for Monero Mining and Backdoors", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/pyromine-uses-nsa-exploit-for-monero-mining-and-backdoors/131472/", "Date" : "April 26, 2018 , 2:21 pm", "Article" : "The ShadowBrokersu2019 release of a trove of National Security Agency exploits last year appears to be the gift that keeps on giving, to the hacker community at least: A fresh malware that uses the EternalRomance tool has hit the scene, with Monero-mining as the stated goal. However, more damaging follow-on attacks are likely the endgame. The bad code is a Python-based cryptocurrency mining malware, according to Fortinetu2019s FortiGuard Labs, which first discovered it this month. Because the malware uses the EternalRomance exploit, the researchers have given it the snappy name of u201cPyRoMine.u201d The malware can be downloaded as an executable file compiled with PyInstaller, which is a program that packages code written in Python into stand-alone executables. This means that, conveniently, there is no need to install Python on the machine in order to execute the Python-based PyRoMine. Once installed, it sets about silently stealing CPU resources from unwitting victims to aim its proverbial drill bit at uncovering Monero profits. u201cWe donu2019t know for sure how it arrives on a system, but considering that this is the type of malware that needs to be mass distributed, it is safe to assume that it arrives via spam email or drive-by-download,u201du00a0FortiGuard security researcher Jasper Manuel said in an email interview. Worryingly, PyRoMine also sets up a hidden default account on the victimized machine with system administrator privileges, using the password u201cP@ssw0rdf0rme.u201d Itu2019s likely that this would be used for re-infection and further attacks, according to Manuel. u201cIt is fairly likely that future attacks could happen,u201d he told Threatpost. u201cAlthough this malware is not a botnet because it doesnu2019t phone home to report an infection and doesnu2019t wait for commands, it still sets up an account on the affected machine and enables Remote Desktop Protocol. The attackers could use the same channel to connect to the machine using the created account to do further attacks.u201d Ripe for Spreading Based on the earnings that PyRoMine has so to date (only about $650), it hasnu2019t exactly lived up to its name and caught fire on the propagation front. But that could rapidly change: For one, the choice of Monero indicates that the criminals are looking to cast a wide net, given that the currency offers an important u201cfeatureu201d that make it more suitable to the mass market than the more venerable Bitcoin: It relies on a proof-of-work algorithm called CryptoNight, designed for ordinary computers and even mobile phones, rather than for high-end GPUs or the specialized hardware needed for efficient Bitcoin mining. Thus, the potential attack surface consists of consumers and businesses alike, globally. Secondly, cybercriminals have discovered that enterprises and individuals have been pretty slow when it comes to patching the known vulnerabilities that the NSA tools leverage. The ShadowBrokers leaked a whole treasure chest of hacking tools and zero-day exploits in 2017, attributed to the Equation Group, which is believed to be an arm of the NSAu2019s Tailored Access Operations unit. They target Windows XP/Vista/8.1/7/10 and Windows Server 2003/2008/2012/2016, taking advantage of a pair of vulnerabilities, CVE-2017-0144 and CVE-2017-0145. Microsoft patched these very quickly after the tools were made public. u201cThe patch for EternalRomance was released a year ago, but many still donu2019t think proactive about security,u201d Manuel told Threatpost. u201cThe fact that cybercriminals use these exploits tells us that they still profit by using these exploits in their malware.u201d And finally, EternalRomance is a remote code execution (RCE) exploit that abuses the legacy SMBv1 file-sharing protocol. SMBv1 is typically used only within the local area network of a business, but all too often itu2019s left exposed to the internet u2013one of the contributing factors as to why the EternalX attacks WannaCry and NotPetya were able to spread so widely. u201cIn the past, we have seen that these exploits were used by state-sponsored threat actors,u201d Manuel told us. u201cWithin days of the release, we started seeing these exploits being used by commodity malware like cryptominers and info-stealers to target general victims.u201d PyRoMine isnu2019t the first miner to use the NSA tools: Researchers have discovered malware authors using the EternalBlue exploit in other cryptocurrency mining malware, such as Adylkuzz, Smominru and WannaMine u2013 with great success. Manuel added that because the patch rate is clearly low for the leveraged vulnerabilities, he expects commodity malware to continue to use the NSA exploits for some time to come. More concerning, PyRoMineu2019s backdoor strategy could become a hallmark going forward. u201cI think is going to be something that we see much more of in the future as the tools that are being deployed are multi-faceted,u201d said Chris Roberts, chief security architect at Acalvio, in an emailed comment. u201cIn this case, itu2019s not only mining and disabling security services. Itu2019s also adding itself into several account types, opening up RDP (3389) and basically laying the welcome mat out for future attacks. Several of the latest tool sets are coming armed with various payloads that simply have functionality to deploy attacks, harvest for data and also take advantage of lax security and processing time. And, this all comes in a nice, neat package using the simple issue that we (the human) havenu2019t patched or donu2019t pay attention to what we are downloading/clicking. Once again, we are the attack vector and the computer suffers.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657d06cefc42b002939f2" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "RSAC 2018: Tech Giants Form Cybersecurity Tech Accord", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/rsac-2018-tech-giants-form-cybersecurity-tech-accord/131253/", "Date" : "April 17, 2018 , 3:14 pm", "Article" : "SAN FRANCISCO u2013 Microsoft President Brad Smith during a keynote at the 2018 RSA Conference condemned government-backed cyberattacks as endangering innocent civilianu2019s lives u2013 and said that tech companies need to come together to u201copen the worldu2019s eyes to the impact that this is having.u201d At this yearu2019s conference, 34 companies u2013 including Microsoft, Facebook, and HPE u2013 announced a Cybersecurity Tech Accord. Smith likened it to a Digital Geneva Convention where members would work together on cybersecurity issues and pledged their opposition against all cyberattacks by governments. Smith pointed to the WannaCry and NotPetya attacks u2013 the destructive campaigns that impacted computers across 150 countries u2013 as an example of attacks that not only crippled civiliansu2019 systems, but also disrupted citizensu2019 daily lives. u201cThis is a sobering time. When World War II u00a0ended, governments of the world pledged a moral responsibility and legal duty to protect civilians in the time of war. Then in May and June of last year, we saw governments attacking civilians in a time of peace,u201d said Smith. u00a0u201cWe have a message to the governments of the world u2013 thatu2019s an attack that endangers peopleu2019s lives.u201d The WannaCry ransomware, which is estimated to have infected more than 300,000 systems across 150 countries, demanded a ransom of $300 for the decryption key. The attack broke out in May u2013 then in June 2017, another massive ransomware campaign hit several companies across Ukraine, including a number of Ukraine banks and the state power distributor. The WannaCry attacks were later officially blamed on North Korea by the U.S. government. These attacks not only brought down computer systems, but paralyzed hospital customers appointments, crippled banks and had the potential to shut down power grids, said Smith. In response to attacks, the 34 tech firms have signed an accord pledging both to oppose governments launching cyberattacks against civilians, but also committing to protect all their customers with new tools and products and working together in addressing security. These companies include ABB, Arm, Cisco, Facebook, HP, HPE, Microsoft, Nokia, Oracle, and Trend Micro. Others, such as Apple and Google, were not on the list. u201cThe companies will not help governments launch cyberattacks against innocent citizens and enterprises, and will protect against tampering or exploitation of their products and services through every stage of technology development, design and distribution,u201d the accord said. Kirstjen Nielsen, Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, agreed that governments u201cneed normsu201d when it comes to cybersecurity. Nielson said that the guidelines of the accord u201cperfectly alignu201d with those of DHS. u201cThe threats today are too big, too widespread to fight alone,u201d she said. u201cWe have to voluntarily come together in the absence of true rules in the cyberrealm.u201d According to Microsoft, the companies that signed the accord will take future actions u2013 including jointly developed guidelines or new security features. u201cWe need governments to stop targeting the public sector, hospitals, and power gridsu2026 we need to make the world a safer place,u201d said Smith. u00a0u00a0u201cThis requires that we not only do more [to address security risks] but do more together.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657d26cefc42b002939f3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Latest Petya Ransomware Strain Comes with a Failsafe: Mischa", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/latest-petya-ransomware-strain-comes-with-a-failsafe-mischa/118072/", "Date" : "May 13, 2016 , 11:07 am", "Article" : "The Petya ransomware strain signaled a new escalation for crypto-malware when it surfaced in March. For the first time, ransomware went beyond encrypting files on local and shared drives and instead set its sights on locking up the Master File Table on compromised machines. Petya did have its shortcomings and before long, researchers were able to develop a tool that recovered some files lost to infections. The criminals behind Petya, meanwhile, have addressed another weakness where the malware would not execute if it were not granted administrative privileges in order to target the MFT. A new installer for Petya was found and disclosed on Thursday. It comes with a failsafe; if its installer is not granted the privileges it seeks, it instead installs another strain of ransomware known as Mischa. The original Petya executable came with a manifest that requested administrator privileges, said researcher Lawrence Abrams of Bleeping Computer.  u201cThis causes Windows to issue a UAC prompt and request these privileges before the code in the executable is actually run. If the victim has UAC disabled, the program will just automatically run with [admin privileges],u201d Abrams told Threatpost. u201cThis also means that if the user said u2018Nou2019 at the UAC prompt, the program would not run and thus not install Petya.u201d Abrams said the Petya gang was u201cleaving money on the tableu201d in the form of these failed installations. Their counter was the bundle Mischa ransomware into the installer that would execute if Petya failed. The new versionu2019s manifest states that it will run under the useru2019s security credentials, Abrams said. Windows then allows the program to start without a UAC prompt. u201cWhen the installer starts, it will programmatically request Administrator privileges. This will cause a UAC prompt to appear and if the user presses u2018Yesu2019 at the UAC prompt, or UAC is disabled, and it gains admin privileges it goes ahead and installs Petya,u201d Abrams said. u201cOn the other hand, if it does not get Admins privileges, it moves forward with installing Mischa.u00a0Pretty clever method.u201d Mischa behaves like most of the ransomware many are familiar with. Once the victim executes link sent in a spam or phishing email, the malware encrypts local files and demands a ransom of 1.93 Bitcoin, or about $875 to recover the scrambled files. Petya, meanwhile, continues to spread in Germany to enterprise HR organizations via emails with a link to a cloud file storage service purporting to be a job application. The original used Dropbox links that were ultimately disabled by Dropbox. The current campaign is sending victims to files stored on Germanyu2019s TelekomCloud service. The malicious file contains an image of the applicant and a download that starts with PDF, such as PDFBewerbungsmappe.exe, Abrams said. u201cWhen a victim downloads the executable, it will have a PDF icon to make it appear as a PDF resume,u201d Abrams said.u00a0u201cThis executable, though, when started tries to install Petya, and if that fails, installs the Mischa ransomware.u201d Mischa scans the local drive for certain data files and encrypts them with AES. The files are also appended with a four-character extension, such as 7GP3, he said. u201cWhile encrypting a file Mischau00a0will store the encrypted decryption key at the end of the encrypted file,u201d Abrams said.u00a0u201cAn annoying aspect of Mischa is that not only will it encrypt your standard data file type (PNGs, JPGs, DOCXs, etc), but it will also encrypt .EXE files.u201d The ransom must be paid in Bitcoin through a Tor payment site, Abrams said. The ransom note takes the victim to a payment wizard that explains how to buy Bitcoin and where to send the ransom. Victims as of yet do not have a file decryptor available for Mischa infections. u201cIt is always suggested that you attempt to use Shadow Explorer to see if your Shadow Volume Copies are intact,u201d Abrams said. u201cThese can then possibly be used to restore older versions of the encrypted files.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657dc6cefc42b00293a06" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Ransomware Dominates Verizon DBIR", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ransomware-dominates-verizon-dbir/131102/", "Date" : "April 10, 2018 , 1:42 pm", "Article" : "Ransomware has become the most prevalent malicious software as hackers cash in on locking up expensive business critical systems and demanding a ransom, researchers warn. Verizonu2019s 2018 Data Breach Investigations Reportu00a0(DBIR), released Tuesday, said that ransomware attacks have doubled over the past year, and are now the top variety of malware found. u201c[Ransomware] is now the most prevalent form of malware, and its use has increased significantly over recent years,u201d said Bryan Sartin, executive director security professional services atu00a0Verizon, in a statement. u201cWhat is interesting to us is that businesses are still not investing in appropriate security strategies to combat ransomware, meaning they end up with no option but to pay the ransom u2013 the cybercriminal is the only winner here.u201d After analyzingu00a0over 53,000 security incidents u2013 including 2,215 breaches u2013 Verizon said that ransomware attacks made up 39 percent of the malware-specific incidents. One trend driving crooks to ransomware attacks is the ability to target critical business systems u2013 as opposed to desktops u2013 which could do more damage to a company and generate more profits as extortion targets. Over time asset categories within ransomware incidents have grown beyond user devices to also include servers. Verizon said thatu2019s because hackers realize that encrypting a file server or database is more damaging than a single useru2019s device. u201cLateral movement and other post-compromise activities often reel in other systems that are available for infection and obscuration,u201d according to Verizon. Ransomware attacks are also appealing to attackers because they involve little or no risk or cost for the hackers themselves, and do not require a breach of confidentiality to meet their goal, said Verizon. And that goal u2013 money u2013 is quickly becoming a top priority for many hackers. Verizon said in its report that 76 percent of breaches were u00a0financially motivated. That was true with one of the most prominent instances of ransomware in 2017 u2013 the WannaCry and NotPetya attacks in May. The WannaCry ransomware, which is estimated to have infected more than 300,000 systems across 150 countries, demanded a ransom of $300 for the decryption key. Meanwhile, NotPetya encrypted the master boot record and requested Bitcoin as the primary form of ransom payment. In October, another ransomware campaign, BadRabbit, rocked the security industry u2013 and showed just how much damage attackers were capable of when they targeted infrastructure rather than merely desktop systems. This campaign, linked to Russian Telebots, was launched using malware on websites in Russia, Ukraine, and Eastern Europe. u00a0Ukraine suffered the greatest disruption of critical web properties and infrastructure. Even more recently, in March 2018 the city of Atlanta was targeted in a ransomware attack impacting several of its departments and crippling government websites that process payments and relay court information. The city was asked to pay $51,000 in exchange for keys to decrypt systems. Ransomware has been popular for attackers for awhile u2013 in last yearu2019s Verizon report, the company said that ransomware attacks had doubled as well. To mitigate the likelihood of ransomware attacks, Verizon said in its report that people should make sure they have routine backups to fall back on, as well as segregate assets that are more critical to protect them and prioritize them with regard to business continuity.u201d u201cAs an industry, we have to help our customers take a more proactive approach to their security,u201d said Sartin in a statement. u201cHelping them to understand the threats they face is the first step to putting in place solutions to protect themselves.u201du2018  Overall, threats such as hacking, malware and social attacks (such as phishing) led to the most breaches over the past year, Verizon found. Distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks are another significant threat highlighted by Verizonu2019s 2018 report. u201cDDoS attacks can impact anyone and are often used as camouflage, often being started, stopped and restarted to hide other breaches in progress,u201d according to Verizon. u201cMany attacks are now coming from cybercriminals who are financially motivated. Therefore, itu2019s no surprise that most attacks are reported against the Finance, Insurance and Retail industries,u201d said Sean Newman, director product management at Corero Network Security. u201cFor online companies where it is critical to have 100 percent uptime, DDoS technology which can detect and automatically mitigate attacks, in real-time, should now be a must-have requirement.u201d u00a0 u00a0 u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657f16cefc42b00293a26" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Maersk Shipping Reports $300M Loss Stemming from NotPetya Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/maersk-shipping-reports-300m-loss-stemming-from-notpetya-attack/127477/", "Date" : "August 16, 2017 , 1:33 pm", "Article" : "A.P. Moller-Maersk, the worldu2019s largest container ship and supply vessel company, said Tuesday that it would incur hundreds of millions in U.S. dollar losses due to the NotPetya wiper malware attacks of late June. In its second quarter earnings report, Maersk executives said they were expecting losses between $200 million and $300 million. The lost revenue, they said, was due to u201csignificant business interruptionu201d because the company was forced to temporarily shutter critical systems infected with the malware. u201cThe malware was contained to only impact the container related businesses of A.P. Moller u2013 Maersk, and therefore six out of nine businesses, including all Energy businesses, could uphold normal operations,u201d the company said in its earnings report. u201cA.P. Moller u2013 Maersk also remained in full control of all vessels throughout the situation, and all employees were safe.u201d The company said its Maersk Line APM Terminals and Damco systems were shut down as a precaution given their connections to partners and suppliers. APM Terminals is a port and terminal operator, while Damco is a freight and supply chain partner. u201cThese system shutdowns resulted in significant business interruption during the shutdown period, with limited financial impact in Q2, while the impact in Q3 is larger, due to temporary lost revenue in July (see guidance for 2017),u201d the company said in its report. Maersk was just one of hundreds of companies impacted around the world by NotPetya, also known as ExPetr. The wiper attack was disguised as ransomware, and like WannaCry before it, was spread via the leaked NSA EternalBlue exploit along with a few other distribution vectors, including a watering hole attack. The origin of the attack has been traced to a compromise of Ukrainian financial software provider MeDoc. The companyu2019s software update process was hacked and attackers dropped in the NotPetya malware. Once it was on victimsu2019 machines, the malware spread internally using two Windows utilitiesu2014PSEXEC and WMICu2014to do so. Giant pharmaceutical company Merck also publicly disclosed how NotPetya slowed down its operations in its Aug. 1 earnings report. The company said the disruption caused by NotPetya affected manufacturing, research and sales operations worldwide, and that it continued to affect u201ccertain operationsu201d at the time. Manufacturing operations, for example, were not at full capability, Merck said in its report. Packaging operations were up and running, but formulation had been only partially restored. The biggest hit may have been to Mercku2019s Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient operations; these are the biological ingredients, or active substances, vital to pharmaceutical drugs. Maersk, meanwhile, described in some detail how the outbreak unfolded on its systems. The company said the attack was contained within 24 hours and that it began recovery operations working with IT and security partners to do so. By June 29, two days after the outbreak, Maersk was able to accept bookings from customers with existing accounts, the company said. u201cA.P. Moller u2013 Maersk gradually progressed to more normalized operations for Maersk Line, Damco and APM Terminals during the week of 3 July to 9 July,u201d the company said. u201cTo reinstate services safely and without further disruption, A.P. Moller u2013 Maersk began to systematically bring back users and applications in 500 locations.u201d The company said that its expected overall profit to still exceed 2016 margins despite the impact of the cyberattack. u201cThis cyber-attack was a previously unseen type of malware, and updates and patches applied to both the Windows systems and antivirus were not an effective protection in this case,u201d the company said. u201cIn response to this new type of malware, A.P. Moller u2013 Maersk has put in place different and further protective measures and is continuing to review its systems to defend against attacks.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657f96cefc42b00293a31" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Attackers Backdoor Another Software Update Mechanism", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/attackers-backdoor-another-software-update-mechanism/127452/", "Date" : "August 15, 2017 , 2:00 pm", "Article" : "Attackers infiltrated the update mechanism for a popular server management software package as recently as last month and modified it to include a backdoor. NetSarang, which has headquarters in South Korea and the United States, has removed the backdoored update, but not before it was activated on at least one victimu2019s machine in Hong Kong. Some of its customers include large enterprises operating in a number of industries, including financial services, energy, retail, technology, media and more. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab today said they privately disclosed this issue to the provider in July after finding suspicious DNS requests on a customeru2019s network in the financial services space. The requests were found on systems used to process transactions, Kaspersky Lab said. An investigation into the DNS queries led them to NetSarang, which quickly swapped out the malicious library in its update package with a clean one, Kaspersky Lab said in a report published today on Securelist. The backdoor was embedded in a code library called nssock2.dll used by the software. u201cTo combat the ever-changing landscape of cyberattacks NetSarang has incorporated various methods and measures to prevent our line of products from being compromised, infected, or utilized by cyberespionage groups. Regretfully, the Build release of our full line of products on July 18th, 2017 was unknowingly shipped with a backdoor which had the potential to be exploited by its creator,u201d said NetSarang in a statement. u201cThe security of our customers and user base is our highest priority and ultimately, our responsibility. The fact that malicious groups and entities are utilizing commercial and legitimate software for illicit gain is an ever-growing concern and one that NetSarang, as well as others in the computer software industry, is taking very seriously.u201d The attack is just the latest where nation-state actors, or cybercriminals, have infiltrated a software supply chain provider and infected a trusted update mechanism. The source of the ExPetr/Not Petya wiper malware attacks, for example, was linked to a Ukrainian financial software provider called MeDoc. Attackers compromised its update mechanism and swapped in a phony update that included NotPetya, which was originally believed to be a ransomware attack similar to WannaCry. u201cThe attackers hid their malicious intent in several layers of encrypted code,u201d researchers said. u201cThe tiered architecture prevents the actual business logic of the backdoor from being activated until a special packet is received from the first tier C&C server (u2018activation C&C serveru2019). Until then, it only transfers basic information including the computer, domain and user names every eight hours.u201d The payload would only be activated through a crafted DNS TXT record for a specific domain, the researchers said. This allows the attackers to glean system information, and the attackeru2019s server then sends a decryption key that unlocks the next stage of the attack, activating the backdoor. Kaspersky Lab said the backdoor, called ShadowPad, is a modular platform that can be used to download and execute arbitrary code, create processes, and maintain a virtual file system in the registry, all of which are encrypted and stored in locations unique to each victim. The researchers said they can confirm activated payloads in the Asia Pacific region. u201cGiven that the NetSarang programs are used in hundreds of critical networks around the world, on servers and workstations belonging to system administrators, it is strongly recommended that companies take immediate action to identify and contain the compromised software,u201d Kaspersky Lab said. Affected versions of NetSarang containing the malicious nssock2.dll are Xmanager Enterprise 5 Build 1232, Xmanager 5 Build 1045, Xshell 5 Build 1322, Xftp 5 Build 1218 and Xlpd 5 Build 1220. Kaspersky Lab said the first compile date itu2019s aware of for the backdoor is Jul 13, and that the file is signed with a legitimate NetSarang certificate. Installation kits from April do not include the malicious library, the researchers said. The researchers also published a list of domains to which the DNS requests beaconed out, and any requests to those domains should be blocked, they said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658086cefc42b00293a4c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Ukrainian Man Arrested, Charged in NotPetya Distribution", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ukrainian-man-arrested-charged-in-notpetya-distribution/127391/", "Date" : "August 11, 2017 , 10:10 am", "Article" : "The Cyber Police of Ukraine arrested a suspect they allege distributed the destructive NotPetya/ExPetr malware resulting in the infection of 400 computers. NotPetya/ExPetr was the malware behind au00a0massive global cyberattack that took place earlier this year. It infected computers worldwide with wiper malware disguised as a ransomware attack; the bulk of infections were in the Ukraine. The unidentified Ukrainian man, 51, was arrested earlier this week at his home in Nikopol. Police allege the man uploaded a video to a file exchange service that contained instructions on how to run the malware, and shared links to the video on a personal blog and social media.u00a0Links from the video pointed to downloads of the Petya.A malware, said police. In all, authorities said, 400 victims followed the link and downloaded the malware to their computers and became infected. Victims were unaware of what exactly they were downloading at the time, according to a translation of the Cyber Police of Ukraineu2019s report of the arrest. This summeru2019s outbreak wasu00a0a wiper attack that sabotaged PCs globally, overwriting their Master Boot Record forever. Itu2019s important to note the suspect was not accused of creating Petya.A. NotPetya/ExPetr spread using the leaked NSA EternalBlue and EternalRomance exploits, infecting machines that still had not applied the MS17-010 Microsoft update that patches a handful of SMBv1 vulnerabilities targeted by the exploit. The malware initially impacted critical industries and services in Ukraine, Russia and then throughout Europe, including the radiation monitoring station for the crippled Chernobyl nuclear power plant and pharmaceutical giant Merck and Co.u2019s MSD operation in the United Kingdom. In June, the Ukraineu2019s Cyber Police said the initial infection vector was via an update mechanism for Ukrainian financial software provider MEDoc. Cisco, Kaspersky Lab and Microsoft also implicated the company, saying that its software update system had been compromised and was serving up the ransomware in phony updates. Interestingly, during the police seizure of the suspectu2019s computers, it found a list of companies that it claimed used the Petya malware to purposely sabotage their own computers to hide incriminating information. u201cThey specifically infected their own computers to cover up (unspecified) illegal activities and evade the payment of fines to the government,u201d according to a translation of the report. Authorities said the suspect is being charged under criminal proceedings tied to u201cunauthorized interference with the work of computers,u201d according to a translation of the post. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658206cefc42b00293a6a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Mamba Ransomware Resurfaces in Brazil, Saudi Arabia", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/mamba-ransomware-resurfaces-in-brazil-saudi-arabia/127325/", "Date" : "August 9, 2017 , 10:06 am", "Article" : "Mamba was among the first samples of ransomware that encrypted hard drives rather than files that was detected in public attacks, primarily against organizations in Brazil and in a high-profile incursion against the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency last November. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab said today in a report that a new run of Mamba infections have been spotted again in Brazil and Saudi Arabia. The malware is the latest sample extending a trend of attackers disguising sabotage within a ransomware attack, which began with Petya and Mischa in early 2016 and peaked this year with the ExPetr/NotPetya wiper malware attacks. Itu2019s unknown who is behind the most recent Mamba attacks, whether itu2019s a nation-state or a criminal enterprise. In a talk yesterday, Kaspersky Lab researchers Juan Andres Guerrero Saade and Brian Bartholomew predicted this trend would continue and speculated that for now attacks disguised as ransomware for the purpose of sabotage remain within the realm of APTs. u201cLetu2019s say we have all the means for a sabotage attack and we want to disguise it as ransomware or as something potentially treatable, itu2019s not necessarily that different from what the Lazarus Group did with Sony, or some other South Korean targets, where first they asked for money and then dumped data anyways. Itu2019s an evolution thatu2019s particularly troubling,u201d Guerrero-Saade said. Unlike the ExPetr attacks where it was unlikely victims would be able to recover their machines, that may not be the case with Mamba. u201cAuthors of wiper malware are not able to decrypt victimsu2019 machines. For example, if you remember the ExPetr [malware], it uses a randomly generated key to encrypt a victim machine, but the trojan doesnu2019t save the key for further decryption,u201d said Kaspersky Lab researcher Orkhan Memedov. u201cSo, we have a reason to call it u2018a wiper.u2019 However, in case of Mamba the key should be passed to the trojan as a command line argument, it means that the criminal knows this key and, in theory, the criminal is able to decrypt the machine.u201d Mamba appeared in September 2016 when researchers at Morphus Labs said the malware was detected on machines belonging to a energy company in Brazil with subsidiaries in the United States and India. Once the malware infects a Windows machine it overwrites the existing Master Boot Record, with a custom MBR and encrypts the hard drive using an open source full disk encryption utility called DiskCryptor. A ransom note, published (see below) by Kaspersky Lab, shows no demands for money unlike the original Mamba infections. Instead, it just claims data has been encrypted and provides two email addresses and an ID number in order to recover the encryption key.  u201cUnfortunately there is no way to decrypt data that has been encrypted with the DiskCryptor utility, because this legitimate utility uses strong encryption algorithms,u201d Kaspersky Lab said in its report. The report suggests also that the group behind the latest Mamba attacks in Brazil and Saudi Arabia uses the PSEXEC utility to execute the malware on the corporate network once it has a foothold. PSEXEC was at the heart of the ExPetr malware attacks, which shared a number of similarities to the Petya attacks. ExPetr used PSEXEC and WMIC, another Windows utility, spread on local networks. Its goal was not profit, but destruction; analysts looking at the malware quickly the determined the ransomware functionality was faulty and victims would never be able to recover their files. The true purpose of those attacks was to wipe out the hard drive. According to todayu2019s report from Kaspersky Lab, attacks are happening in two stages. During the first stage, DiskCryptor is dropped into a new folder created by the malware and installed. A system service called DefragmentService is registered for persistence, and the victimu2019s machine is rebooted. The second stage sets up the new bootloader and encrypts disk partitions using DiskCryptor before the machine is rebooted again. u201cIt is important to mention that for each machine in a victimu2019s network, the threat actor generates a password for the DiskCryptor utility,u201d Kaspersky Lab said in its report. u201cThis password is passed via command line arguments to the ransomware dropper.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658286cefc42b00293a77" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Four New Normals for 2017", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/four-new-normals-for-2017/122584/", "Date" : "December 28, 2016 , 9:00 am", "Article" : "Letu2019s not talk about cybersecurity predictions for 2017. Letu2019s talk instead about new normals, things that have ceased to be novel because, well, they happen all the time and everywhere. Letu2019s concede that things such as greedy ransomware, imposing IOT botnets, high-profile bug bounties and bug-buying-and-selling governments arenu2019t going away. They canu2019t be fixed; wonu2019t be swayed; are part of the landscape; insert your favorite clichu00e9 here. New normals. All four dominated 2016 in some form, and each entrenched itself in your risk assessments, defensive strategies and budget decisions. In fact, weu2019re just about at the point where each fails to qualify as news, just like old-school viruses, data breaches and spam. Theyu2019re just there. Ransomware  Why didnu2019t anyone think of this 10 years ago? Slammer, Conficker and every other worm in the early 2000s put everyone on edge, but exactly how much money were hackers making with worms that clog up SQL Servers? Zilch. Crypto-ransomware flipped the cybercrime game on its head. This is the new normal for malware, a tidy package of malicious code that works by simply encrypting your files and folders, or your hard drive, and asks for money in return. Forget DDoS as your No. 1 extortion vehicle; itu2019s all about Cryptolocker, Locky, Petya and the dozens of other ransomware samples that popped up this year. Ransomware certainly isnu2019t new, but it certainly hit critical mass this year. We had real-world impact where hospitals were forced to move patients to other health care facilities, law enforcement operations were unable to access records databases, and utilities wondering if they were next. This is not good. And itu2019s fixable to a point. Just like with old-school malware, signatures catch up with new threats relatively quickly, but nothing has evolved as fast as ransomware. Nothing related to cybercrime has nudged the FBI into issuing nation-wide alerts or asking for victims to share relevant data about attacks. IoT Botnets Used to be that DDoS attacks required thousands of endpoints under the control of a central entity to take down a bank or Yahoo. But endpoints canu2014and do, for the most partu2014get patched. So are we a victim of our own success with botnets comprised of connected things? Criminals have found something that canu2019t easily or readily be patched in IP-enabled closed-circuit TV cameras and DVRs. These devices are already in the wild, and connected, and accessible. Admin:Admin and 61 other crappy passwords opened Pandorau2019s box and cut loose the effects of the Mirai malware. Once the source code was posted on the Hackforums site by hacker Anna-Senpai, it was game over. Skilled hackers could take that code and build variants of Mirai to take down new targets and cause more worry. The attacks on Dyn, Brian Krebs, OVH and others just showed the way. The Dyn attack in particular was worrisome because to a degree, it affected the stability of the Internet for a period of time on a particular day. For a few hours, a DNS provider went down and took Spotify, Twitter and more with it, primarily on the East Coast of the U.S. Was it a dry run for something bigger? Depends on whom you ask. If you ask Bruce Schneier, he may tell you it was a basic DDoS attack. But bigger picture, Schneier told Congress, is that itu2019s time for regulation. Thereu2019s no wrangling this horse back into the barn. And even if it comes at the cost of innovation, the fact that the pace at which devices are being connected is outpacing our ability to properly secure them, itu2019s time for an intervention. Schneier and others are in the camp that the government has to step up and step in and demand that manufacturers follow a standard of care and protection that doesnu2019t harm consumers and core services. Bug Bounties Bug bounties should not be news anymore. And speaking as a newsperson, they really arenu2019t. And thatu2019s a really good thing. Not every company has a high-profile public bug bounty, but more companies than you realize have private ones that theyu2019re running with the help of companies like HackerOne, Bugcrowd, Synack and others. Bug bounties are about the reward on their public face. Hackers can legally poke around a companyu2019s web properties, find holes, report them through an established channel and make some money. Some are making a lot of money, others like to see their name on a vulnerability advisory; it amounts to an intellectual exercise. Ten years ago, there was the No More Free Bugs movement where researchers said enough to turning bugs over to Microsoft et al for nothing, all the while wondering if and when they were going to be sued. Does every company have a bug bounty? No. But there are enough out there to demonstrate that itu2019s a worthwhile initiative, and that bugs get fixed, and the finders get paid. The Army has one, the Pentagon and General Motors too. Not all of them pay, and apparently, thatu2019s OK with more researchers than we realize. If weu2019re to believe recent NTIA survey results, hackers prefer consistent and open communication with a vendor throughout the reporting and remediation process, more so than getting paid. Bug bounties arenu2019t novel any more, and theyu2019re not news. And thatu2019s excellent. Bug Buying Governments buy vulnerabilities. Governments buy exploits. Governments keep said bugs. Said bugs donu2019t get fixed. And if you find out about a government-purchased bug in the wild, itu2019s because someone slipped up, or had a slip of the slip. Governments have a different mission than business, and part of that mission is national security, and that involves gathering intelligence. To think that governments donu2019t spyu2014or at least collectu2014our internet activity is silly. One way itu2019s done is by buying vulnerabilities, building exploits and using them to spy on adversaries. Thatu2019s been a reality for decades. James Bond found listening devices in lamps and behind paintings, today heu2019d be looking for a macOS rootkit. Itu2019s the way the game is played and the buying power of governments enables espionage at this level. Thankfully in the U.S., we at least have the illusion that there are checks and controls in place on those powers. The rampant abuses uncovered by outfits such as Citizen Lab are invaluable to shedding light on how abusive, oppressive regimes abuse these tools to spy on, and endanger, their citizens. These are the traps democratic nations hope to avoid. Calling for an all-out ban, or complete transparency, of the governmentu2019s bug-buying activities is just as silly and nau00efve as believing that this is a novelty. Itu2019s been a new normal for a long, long time. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36582f6cefc42b00293a85" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Ransomware, Cyberespionage Dominate Verizon DBIR", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ransomware-cyberespionage-dominate-verizon-dbir/125261/", "Date" : "April 27, 2017 , 6:19 pm", "Article" : "Ransomware dominated malware-related data breaches investigated by Verizon last year, appearing in 71 percent of cases, according to theu00a0annual Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report (DBIR) released Thursday. Compared to last yearu2019s DBIR report, ransomware attacks are up 50 percent. Still, Verizon suspects the true number of ransomware attacks and victims is likely going under reported. The DBIR, an analysis of more than 40,000 incidents (including 1,935 breaches) investigated by Verizon, shows thatu00a0cybercriminals targeted manufacturing, the public sector and education the most, but Verizon senior network engineer Dave Hylender said the healthcare industry was hit the hardest with ransomware. u201cOrganized criminal groups continue to utilize ransomware to extort money from their victims, and since a data disclosure in these incidents is often not confirmed, they are not reflected in statistical data,u201d Verizon wrote. Last year, ransomware attacks against healthcare organizations dominated headlines such a Locky ransomware attack against the hospital chain MedStar and Samsam ransomware attacks that crippled two California hospitals. Last year also saw the emergence of new types of ransomware and ransomware business models, with the DBIR citing Petya and Mischau00a0specifically.  u00a0 u201cRansomware has evolved over the past year,u201d Hylender said. u201cWe are seeing new strains with new attributes.u201d Instead of immediately infecting and encrypting data, criminals are now taking their time infiltrate systems and targeting high-value data with ransomware, he said. u201cRansomware gangs are using unforeseen and unusual command lines and are using new packaging techniques for their malware so they can evade detection,u201d Hylender said. Last year there was no shortage of unique ransomware from those that used fileless attack techniques, to campaigns that coupled elaborate phishing attacks with complex malicious Word macros. The 2017 DBIR also singles out cyberespionage and APTs as a prevalent threat.u00a0Verizon said 21 percent of breaches last year were tied to organized nation-stateu00a0groups that dominated headlines such as Fancy Bear, Equation Group and Turla. State-affiliated actors were responsible for a quarter of recorded phishing attacks, up from nine percent last year. u201cTargeted phishing campaigns continue to be the tip of the spear for espionage-related breaches,u201d Verizon wrote. Hardest sectors hit by cyberespionage were manufacturing (representing 38 percent of attacks investigated by Verizon), public (34 percent), professional (9 percent) and education (7 percent), according to the DBIR. The interesting change in theu00a0DBIR is the rise of academia as a target of these attacks, Hylender said. Colleges are centers of innovation and are building technologies that would certainly be targeted by state affiliated groups, he said. u201cCriminals are realizing that intellectual property and trade secrets are being held by institutions of higher learning. And, state actors are realizing itu2019s easier to break into a university system and steal the R&D there than break into a government system or a well-developed and well-protected manufactureru2019s system,u201d Hylender said. In the report, Verizon offers several words of advice for business. One, donu2019t go out of your way to give hackers a reason to attack you. u201cStay off the radar of any potential hacker,u201d Verizon said. It also suggests keeping an ear to the ground when it comes to understanding the type of defenses needed based on reliable threat intelligence. And then, there is the obvious u2013 secure your environment. u201cImplement a timely and effective patch management program; conduct regular penetration-testing activities,u201d it suggests. Verizon also recommends implementing two-factor authentication and offering security awareness training for staffs. u201cPeople are still not using two-factor authentication and hackers are still using brute force passwords attacks. There are all sorts of things we tell people to do to be more secure. Nevertheless, people continue to practice poor security hygiene. Will things change next year? Why would criminals morph and change their tactics if what they are doing today is easy, successful and making them a great deal of money.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658376cefc42b00293a93" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Pharmaceutical Giant Still Feeling NotPetyau2019s Sting", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/pharmaceutical-giant-still-feeling-notpetyas-sting/127130/", "Date" : "August 1, 2017 , 10:14 am", "Article" : "NotPetya was massive shift in malware tactics as what was initially believed to be another global ransomware attack on par with WannaCry was instead a wiper in disguise. It claimed thousands of victims worldwide, including some of the highest profile manufacturers, critical infrastructure providers and financial services organizations. Merck, among the worldu2019s largest pharmaceutical companies, said in its quarterly earnings reportu00a0last week that it has still not fully recovered from the June 27 attack. The company said the disruption caused by NotPetya affected manufacturing, research and sales operations worldwide, and that it continues to affect u201ccertain operations.u201d Manufacturing operations, for example, are still not at full capability, Merck said in its report. Packaging operations are up and running, but formulation has been only partially restored. The biggest hit may have been to Mercku2019s Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient operations; these are the biological ingredients, or active substances, vital to pharmaceutical drugs. u201cThe company is in the process of restoring its Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient operations but is not yet producing bulk product. The companyu2019s external manufacturing was not impacted,u201d Merck said. u201cThroughout this time, Merck has continued to fulfill orders and ship product.u201d Merck manufactures the cancer medication Keytruda, anti-diabetes medication Januvia and hepatitis-C drug Zepatier among others; all three the company said it is confident of providing a continuous supply. It did caution about possible temporary delays in fulfilling some orders for other products in certain markets. u201cWhile the company does not yet know the magnitude of the impact of the disruption, which remains ongoing in certain operations, it continues to work to minimize the effects,u201d Merck said. The giant pharmaceutical is among the first to publicly disclose the impacts of NotPetya on operations and financial performance. NotPetya victims were largely concentrated in the Ukraine, along with Russia. The initial infection vector is believed to be the update mechanism for Ukrainian financial software provider MeDoc, but other points of entry emerged in the early hours of the infection, including a watering hole attack using the government website for the Ukrainian city of Bakhmut. Microsoft said it had a definitive link between MeDoc and NotPetya distribution, something the software provideru2019s executives denied. NotPetya had a lot of earmarks of WannaCry, which hit organizations worldwide a month earlier, riding on the coattails of the leaked EternalBlue NSA exploit. But it was quickly apparent that this was no ransomware attack. Code within the malware made it impossible to recover encrypted files, and the payment setup was also flawed. Instead, it was quickly determined NotPetyau2019s wiper capabilities were the true mission behind the malware, which was much more complex and capable than WannaCry. Microsoftu2019s analysis of the attack points out that NotPetya drops a credential-stealing tool on vulnerable computers that seeks out valid domain credentials, and then begins scanning subnets looking for open port 445 connections. Upon finding one, it tries to execute the wiper malware using native Windows tools PSEXEC or WMIC. The attack did have financial impact on Merck, as it was forced to adjust its outlook for the rest of the year because of the disruptions caused by NotPetya. The Financial Times reported last week that Merck chief financial officer Robert Davis lamented the pharmaceutical giantu2019s forecastu2014which did increaseu2014would have been higher if not for the attack. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36584a6cefc42b00293ab0" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Petya Sabotages Rival Ransomware Chimera, Leaks Decryption Keys", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/petya-sabotages-rival-ransomware-chimera-leaks-decryption-keys/119543/", "Date" : "July 28, 2016 , 12:16 pm", "Article" : "There is no honor among thieves, as the saying goes, and that includes ransomware crooks. In an apparent move to sabotage a ransomware competitor, the authors of the Mischa and Petya ransomware-as-a-service leaked 3,500 decryption keys for its competitor Chimera ransomware. The move appears to be an attempt to push ransomware criminals to ditch Chimerau00a0serviceu00a0and push them toward a new offering by Mischa and Petya ransomware developers. News of the leaked Chimera decryption keys came from Twitter user JanusSecretary who on Tuesday tweeted a link to the keys and a message that stated: u201cAdditionally we now release about 3500 decryption keys from Chimera. They are RSA private keys and shown below in HEX format. It should not be difficult for antivirus companies to build a decrypter with this informations.u201d  Kaspersky Lab on Wednesday updated its RakhniDecryptor ransomware utility (version 1.16.0.0) that now decrypts files infected with the Chimera ransomware, allowing those impacted to get their data back sans paying a ransom to crooks. The roots of the decryption key leak can be traced to the ransomware Mischa and its use of portions of source code from the Chimera ransomware. u201cAccording to the (Petya) devs, at some point they gained access to the Chimera development system and used some of their Chimera code in their own project,u201d wrote computer forensics expert Lawrence Abrams who maintains the BleepingComputer website. u201cWhile they gained access, it appears they took the Chimera decryption keys along with the code,u201d he added. The popularity of Chimera ransomware has significantly diminished over time. Last November, BleepingComputer reported the ransomware operation had shut down. The crypto-ransomware was first spotted in September 2015 targeting users in Germany. It was unique because it made veiled threats of publishing victimsu2019 encrypted data online. Perhaps itu2019s no coincidence the death knell blow to Chimera ransomware authors coincides with a new campaign by Petya and Mischa developers. According to BleepingComputer researchers, on the same day Chimera keys were made public, Petya and Mischa developers began to formally offer ransomware marketed as Petya & Mischa RaaS. Abrams observed, in a recent research post, Petya and Mischa developers have been testing the new ransomware strain in partnership with a number of u201chigh volume distributors.u201d Petya and Mischa developers appear to have tightened their connection to one another this past May. Thatu2019s when Petya escalated its crypto-malware campaign by more aggressively targeting not just data on victimu2019s PCs, but also the Master File Table on compromised machines. At the time, if Petya ransomware could not reach the MFT it would attempt to install the Mischa ransomware. In a May 2016 Threatpost report Abrams said the Petya gang was u201cleaving money on the tableu201d in the form of any failed Petya installations. The counter was the bundling of the Mischa ransomware into the Petya installer that would execute if Petya failed. u201cAs of today, any would-be criminal can sign up and become an official distributor. Unfortunately, this will most likely lead to a greater amount of distribution campaigns for this ransomware,u201d Abrams wrote. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36584c6cefc42b00293ab2" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Decryption Tool Stifles Jigsaw Ransomware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/decryption-tool-stifles-jigsaw-ransomware/117387/", "Date" : "April 13, 2016 , 5:25 pm", "Article" : "Menacing ransomware called Jigsaw threatened to delete thousands of files an hour if victims didnu2019t pay 0.4 Bitcoins or $150. Worse, restarting your PC, according to the attackers, would also cost victims 1,000 deleted files. The icing on the cake was a menacing image of u201cBilly the Puppetu201d from the horror movie franchise Saw and an ominous warning message. u201cI want to play a game with you. Let me explain the rules: All your files are being deleted,u201d the ransomware note begins. But, the Jigsaw horror show appears to be coming to an endu2014for now. Researchers analyzing the malware, that include security researchers at MalwareHunterTeam and individual computer forensics experts Michael Gillespie and Lawrence Abrams, have been able to develop a decryption tool that allows victims to recover their files for free. The trio posted instructions for anyone hit with the Jigsaw ransomware on Abramsu2019 BleepingComputer.com security blog that include the tool needed to decrypt files. According to Abrams, Jigsaw ransomware used AES encryption which supports a block length of 128 bits and key lengths of 128, 192, and 256 bits. u201cThe criminals behind this ransomware are taking just as much pleasure in toying with victims as they are taking their money,u201d Abrams told Threatpost in an interview. But, he said, attackers are living up their promise and are actually destroying the files if people donu2019t pay up. According to researchers,u00a0 Jigsaw targets 240 different unique file extensions on infected systems and locks up documents with the .FUN, .KKK, .GWS, or, .BTC extensions. Once encrypted, criminals start a countdown clock at 60 minutes. Fail to cough-up payment in an hour and Jigsaw deletes one file. Wait another hour and two files get zapped. With each hour that passes the number of files deleted grow exponentially. But, just because researchers have figured out a way to outsmart the ransomware authors, doesnu2019t mean that Jigsaw hasnu2019t lost its bite. u201cYour average Jigsaw victim is not going know where to buy a Bitcoin. The process is cumbersome and could take someone days to figure out. And by that time tens of thousands of files are going to be deleted,u201d Abrams said. Jigsaw victims can avoid any files from being deleted by going into their Windows Task Manager and terminating the firefox.exe process along with the drpbx.exe processes. According to researchers, itu2019s unknown how many systems have been impacted by this ransomware or the means of infection. One clue, according to Abrams, is the fact that some people have been lured into downloading Jigsaw via a fake Firefox browser installation file. Outsmarting ransomware criminals is not common. But earlier this week, researchers said they were able to crack the Petya ransomewareu00a0and developu00a0a decryption tool that allowed victims to generate keys to unlock encrypted files in less than 10 seconds. u201cRansomware is becoming extremely popular,u201d Abrams said. And because of that, ransomware authors are rushing development of code and cutting corners,u00a0making it easier for security professionals to crack. u201cI wouldnu2019t be surprise if we didnu2019t see variants of Petya or Jigsaw soon that simply replaced the encryption engine with something harder to bypass,u201d he said. Stay tuned for a Jigsaw sequel, Abrams said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36584c6cefc42b00293ab3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Google Study Quantifies Ransomware Profits", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/google-study-quantifies-ransomware-revenue/127057/", "Date" : "July 27, 2017 , 12:00 pm", "Article" : "LAS VEGASu2014Over the past two years, 35 unique ransomware strains earned cybercriminals $25 million, with Locky and its many variants being the most profitable. The data comes from a study debuted Wednesday at Black Hat by Google, Chainalysis, UC San Diego, and the NYU Tandom School of Engineering. The study is unique in that it based calculations on bitcoin payments and blockchains. The result allowed researchers to create a precise picture of the ransomware ecosystem and who the top earners were, starting with Locky at $7.8 million in payments from victims, followed by Cerber and CryptXXX that earned $6.9 million and $1.9 million. u201cRansomware is here to stay and we will have to deal with for a long time to come,u201d said Kylie McRoberts, a senior strategist with Googleu2019s Safe Browsing team. The results show that the last two high-profile ransomware attacks, WannaCry and NotPetya, were flops when it came earning money. u201cPetya, NotPetya and other variants never earned money, because it was more wiper malware u2013 not true ransomware,u201d McRoberts said. She called the wiper malware trend u201cthe rise of the ransomware impostors.u201d In contrast, researchers said Locky pulled in more than 28 percent of the $25 million earned by ransomware since 2016. Lockyu2019s secret, according to Luca Invernizzi, a research scientist in Googleu2019s anti-abuse team, is that its authors focused on malware development and finessing the supporting botnet infrastructure. Keeping development separate from distribution allowed the malware to be spread wider and faster than its competitors. Cerber success has been its affiliate model, allowing it to sustain income of $200,000 a month, McRoberts said. Researchers also singled out Spora as an up-and-coming ransomware to watch. They said the malware sets itself apart integrating topnotch customer support with features such as real-time chat to help victims navigate payments and offering immunity packages to avoid getting hit by the ransomware again in the future. According to Google, the malware writers behind CyptoLocker, Locky and Cerber have been getting better at evading detection by creating malware that can automatically change binaries. The study found 23,000 unique binaries for Cerber in 2017 and 6,000 for Locky. Of the samples Google looked at, a total of 301,588 binaries were examined. Thatu2019s been key when it comes to sneaking past antimalware protection, said Elie Bursztein leads Googleu2019s anti-abuse research. Google researchers warned that in the year ahead ransomware-as-a-service was going to become even more prevalent and so will the number of impostors looking to cause more damage than extort money. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658616cefc42b00293ac8" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Password Generator Tool Breaks Petya Ransomware Encryption", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/password-generator-tool-breaks-petya-ransomware-encryption/117315/", "Date" : "April 11, 2016 , 2:33 pm", "Article" : "Researchers have been combing through code related to the Petya ransomware long enough theyu2019ve been able tou00a0cobble together a decryption tool that should allow most victims to generate keys in less than 10 seconds. A Twitter user whou00a0goes by the handle @leostone came up with a genetic algorithm on Friday to generate passwords and subsequently put together a site to help victims generate keys.  Users can generate a decryption key, providing they can supply the tool with information from their infected drive. While this can be a fickle task for the average user, Fabian Wosar, a security researcher at Emsisoft, created an executable over the weekend designed to extract data from infected Petya drives and expedite the process. Lawrence Abrams, a computer forensics expertu00a0who blogs at BleepingComputer.com and has been following the ransomwareu2019s saga, put together a guide on how to use the tool Sunday. Abrams claims the tool scans the affected drive for the Petya bootcode, automatically selects it, and gives users the option to copy both the sector, and nonce associated with it. With that information u2013 a Base64-encoded 512 bytes verification data and a Base64-encoded 8 bytes nonce u2013 victims can navigate to @leostoneu2019s site, copy and paste, and generate a password. Users still have to physically remove the drive from the infected machine and attach it to either a Windows machine or a USB drive docking station, but instead of having to hunt around for the correct code, Wosaru2019s tool does the job for users. With the password users should be able to reconnect their drive, fire up their machine, and enter the password to decrypt their drive. Researchers have been looking into Petya, a strain of ransomware that targets infected machineu2019s master boot records, since it emerged late last month. Until now, the only option for users who had their MBR encrypted was to fork over roughly $400 in Bitcoin for the decryption key. While little is known about @leostone, he did explain the impetusu00a0of his algorithm on Github, acknowledging that he was prompted to look into the ransomware after his father in law was infected. Abrams told Threatpost on Monday that while he hasnu2019t heard of any success stories outside the security community, he was able to decrypt a Petya-infected test machine of his own using the steps in just seven seconds.u00a0While both the algorithm and the tool are encouraging, Abrams admits that it may only be a matter of time before the criminals behind Petya catch on to the tool and bulk up the encryption behind the ransomware. u201cI feel this ransomware is too u201cinnovativeu201d to fall by the way side,u201d Abrams said via email, u201cMy guess is that they will fix the vulnerability and push out a newer version with stronger encryption.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658836cefc42b00293af2" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "US, Canada Issue Ransomware Advisory", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/us-canada-issue-ransomware-advisory/117157/", "Date" : "April 4, 2016 , 10:34 am", "Article" : "Ransomware clearly has people on many fronts worried, so much so that the United States and Canada took an unprecedented step last week to issue a joint advisory on the threat posed by crypto-ransomware. The U.S. Cyber Emergency Response Team together with the Canadian Cyber Incident Response Centre penned a comprehensive warning on the heels of high-profile infections at hospitals nationwide that have made headlines the past few weeks. The advisory describes the threat, potential impact and offers solutions which companies and consumers can take advantage of. u201cThe authors of ransomware instill fear and panic into their victims, causing them to click on a link or pay a ransom, and users systems can become infected with additional malware,u201d the advisory reads. Contrary to advice given by the FBI last fall, the respective CERTS say that paying the ransom may not be the best solution. u201cPaying the ransom does not guarantee the encrypted files will be released; it only guarantees that the malicious actors receive the victimu2019s money, and in some cases, their banking information,u201d the advisory says. u201cIn addition, decrypting files does not mean the malware infection itself has been removed.u201d Ransomware has shut down major health care providers, including MedStar Health in the D.C. area, and Los Angeles-based Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center, affecting not only access to data stored on computers network-wide, but also patient care as in the case of Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center, sick and injured has to be shuttled to other facilities in the area. The respective CERTS warn against financial loss and reputational harm, in addition to possibly permanently corrupted files. The advisory urges organizations to employ common sense computer hygiene, starting with regular, available, secure backups of critical information. Application whitelisting and vigilant patching are also recommended; the CERTS also caution that organizations should educate users to avoid enabling macros. Many ransomware strains, including Locky, arrive in spam and phishing emails with Word documents posing as a business invoice. The victim is directed to enable macros in order to properly view the document, but instead the macro is downloading the ransomware in the background. The speed by which ransomware is evolving is striking, perhaps more so than any other type of malware or exploit. In the past two weeks, weu2019ve seen PowerWare co-opt Windows PowerShell via a malicious macro to pull down the ransomware and avoid writing files to the disk. More recently, Petya ransomware was exposed in attacks targeting HR operations at German companies. The twist with Petya is that it spreads via a Dropbox linku2014which has since been disabledu2014spammed out to organizations. The malware replaces the boot driveu2019s Master Boot Record with a malicious loader. The malware forces Windows to reboot and displays a phony check disk (CHKDSK) operation to the victim while the malware executes in the background and encrypts the master file table. Researcher Hasherezade said in a detailed analysis posted to the Malwarebytes blog that despite claims in the ransom note, Petya does not encrypt the full disk; by encrypting the master file table, it makes it so that the file system is not readable. The ransomware executes in stages and Hasherezade said that if detection happens in the first stage, data can be recovered. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36588d6cefc42b00293b08" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Researchers Find BlackEnergy APT Links in ExPetr Code", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/researchers-find-blackenergy-apt-links-in-expetr-code/126662/", "Date" : "July 3, 2017 , 2:31 pm", "Article" : "Researchers have found links between the BlackEnergy APT group and threat actors behind the ExPetr malware used in last monthu2019s global attacks. According to researchers at Kaspersky Lab, there are strong similarities between older versions of BlackEnergyu2019s KillDisk ransomware compared to ExPetr code. Parallels were first identified in targeted extensions used by both BlackEnergy and ExPetr, researchers said. Kaspersky Lab, working in tandem with researchers from Palo Alto Networks,u00a0said they u201cfocused on the similar extensions list and the code responsible for parsing the file system for encryption or wiping.u201d u201cTogether, we tried to build a list of features that we could use to make a YARA rule to detect both ExPetr and BlackEnergy wipers,u201d wrote researchers with Kaspersky Labu2019s Global Research and Analysis Team in a post published late Friday. YARA is a forensics tool used to examine disparate files and directories and find signature-based similarities. u201cWe took the results of automated code comparisons and paired them down to a signature that perfectly fit the mould of both in the hope of unearthing similarities. What we came up with is a combination of generic code and interesting strings that we put together into a cohesive rule to single out both BlackEnergy KillDisk components and ExPetr samples,u201d wrote researchers. That careful examination of code used by BlackEnergy in its KillDisk ransomware and ExPetr wiper malware yielded u201clow confidenceu201d similarities. However, when examined as part of a larger YARA rule similarities become very precise, researchers said. u201cOf course, this should not be considered a sign of a definitive link, but it does point to certain code design similarities between these malware families,u201d they wrote. The research could prove beneficial at determining who the threat actors behind ExPetr, the wiper malware that sabotaged thousands of PCs, are. The BlackEnergy APT group has long been known to use zero days, destructive tools and malicious code targeting industrial control systems. It was behind the 2015 attack against a Ukraine power grid and a string of similar destructive attacks that have targeted that country over the past several years. Over the last several days ExPetr has been likened to wiper malware and not ransomware, as it was initially widely thought to be. While the malware has a ransomware component, ExPetr cannot decrypt victimsu2019 disk, even if a payment was made. u201cYou canu2019t call an attack, with no possible way of decrypting files, a ransomware attack,u201d said Juan Andres Guerrero-Saade, senior security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, in an webinar with Comae Technologiesu2019 Matt Suiche last week. Similar research by ESET also found links between ExPetr and BlackEnergy. According to ESET, a group with ties to BlackEnergy called TeleBots was behind the ExPetr outbreak. It said the KillDisk encryption component of the ExPetr malware is a hallmark of of the TeleBots group. u201cIn the final stage of its attacks, the TeleBots group always used the KillDisk malware to overwrite files with specific file extensions on the victimsu2019 disks,u201d they wrote. Both BlackEnergy and TeleBots have a history of targeting critical infrastructure and banks in the Ukraine. The ExPetr outbreak is believed to have originated from the update mechanism for Ukrainian financial software provider MEDoc. Also as part of the attack, a government website for the Ukrainian city of Bakhmut was compromised and used in a watering hole attack to spread the malware via a drive-by download. u201cThis low confidence but persistent hunch is what motivates us to ask other researchers around the world to join us in investigating these similarities and attempt to discover more facts about the origin of ExPetr/Petya,u201d Kaspersky Lab researchers wrote. Separately, researchers at the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence (CCD COE) believe that the ExPetr attacks are likely the work of state actors. In a statement issued June 30, it said, u201cthe global outbreak of NotPetya (or ExPetr) malware on 27 June 2017 hitting multiple organisations in Ukraine, Europe, US and possibly Russia can most likely be attributed to a state actor.u201d However, the international cybersecurity arm of NATO said, it is still unclear who exactly is behind the attacks. u201cThere is a lack of a clear coercive element with respect to any government in the campaign, so prohibited intervention does not come into play,u201d the CCD COE report asserted. The statement reminds that cyberattacks with real-world consequences can trigger Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, which could include a military response. u201cHowever, there are no reports of such effects,u201d according to the CCD COE statement. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36588e6cefc42b00293b0b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Researchers Learning More About Petya Ransomware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/researchers-learning-more-about-petya-ransomware/117068/", "Date" : "March 29, 2016 , 3:48 pm", "Article" : "Researchers are digging through samples of the Petya ransomware, and while theyu2019ve learned some about its inner workings, they still havenu2019t mastered enough to come up with a decryptor. Petya is the latest twist on crypto-malware. It was found recently targeting companies in Germany in a spam campaign aimed at human resources organizations. The emails contained a link to a Dropbox file that if clicked loads a dropper that installs Petya. Dropbox has since removed the link and several others that were associated that also contained the same malware. The ransomware will then encrypt the master file table on compromised machines, and demand around $400 in Bitcoin for the decryption key. This is a radical departure from other strains of ransomware that encrypt files stored on the computer, network shares or backups that the computer may have access to. A Malwarebytes researcher who goes by the handle Hasherezade said on Sunday that she had discovered that the malware encrypts a partition table with XOR and the ASCII character 7, 0x37 in hex.  Once the dropper loads Petya, the malware overwrites the boot driveu2019s Master Boot Record with a malicious loader. The malware forces Windows to reboot and displays a phony check disk (CHKDSK) operation to the victim while the malware executes in the background and encrypts the master file table. Hasherezade said in another tweet that once the ransomware makes a XOR encrypted backup of the partition table, it will execute a Blue Screen of Death.  u201cSaving data at this point is relatively easy because only the beginning of the attacked disk is overwritten,u201d she said. u201cThe file system is not destroyed and we can still mount this disk and use its content.u201d She recommends that victims not reboot the system and opt instead to do a disk dump and eventually mount the disk to another OS and back it up. If the second stage of the attack executesu2014the phone check disk operationu2014then the file system has been attacked and cannot be read, she said. Lawrence Abrams of Bleeping Computer said it might be possible to recover data using a file recovery tool that analyzes the disk structure to locate files without using the master file table. u201cUnfortunately, this would probably recover the files in a form that the user would have to go through each one trying to identify what type of file it is and then name it to the appropriate name,u201d Abrams said. u201cNot a fun or easy task by any means.u201d Researcher Fabian Wosar said in a post to the KernelMode.info forums that only certain sections of data are encrypted with ASCII 7 and that the XOR decryption routine depends on the developeru2019s password. From his post: " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658906cefc42b00293b0d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Threatpost News Wrap, June 30, 2017", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/threatpost-news-wrap-june-30-2017/126611/", "Date" : "June 30, 2017 , 9:00 am", "Article" : "Mike Mimoso and Chris Brook discuss this weeku2019s ExPetr global ransomware outbreak, how it was distributed, the wiper aspect, and similarities to 2016u2019s Petya ransomware.  Download:u00a0Threatpost_News_Wrap_June_30_2017.mp3 Music by Chris Gonsalves Show notes: " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658936cefc42b00293b15" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "ExPetr Called a Wiper Attack, Not Ransomware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/expetr-called-a-wiper-attack-not-ransomware/126614/", "Date" : "June 29, 2017 , 3:46 pm", "Article" : "The outbreak of the ExPetr malware isnu2019t a ransomware attack, but more precisely, itu2019s a wiper attack that sabotaged PCs globally, overwriting their Master Boot Record forever. Thatu2019s the analysis of security experts from Kaspersky Lab and Comae Technologies who shared their latest research on this weeku2019s outbreak Thursday during a webinar, below.  u201cWe actually consider this a sabotage attack or wiper attack. Whether it is intentional or not, Iu2019ll leave that to others to speculate,u201d said Juan Andres Guerrero-Saade, senior security researcher at Kaspersky Lab. u201cYou canu2019t call an attack, with no possible way of decrypting files, a ransomware attack,u201d he said. According to Comae Technologies researcher Matt Suiche, there is bug in the malwareu2019s encryption code that prevents any decryption key from working. That is something independent of the fact the German email provider Posteo shut down the attackeru2019s email address preventing victims from contacting the attacker in order to have payments verified. u201cThe actual function to encrypt files contains a logic bug. Because of the way the malware encrypts the data, it makes it impossible to decrypt the files properly, assuming there was a decryption key,u201d Suiche said during the webinar. The good news about the outbreak is the initial attack wave is over. Suiche said most of the damage from ExPetr has already been done. u201cSo, if you havenu2019t been effected by now itu2019s very unlikely you are going to be,u201d he said. The initial infection, unlike WannaCry, was one big wave, he said. Both researchers acknowledged that unraveling this malware has been confusing, with many conflicting reports on infection vectors and competing malware names rangingu00a0 from NotPetya, ExPetr, PetrWrap, GoldenEye and others. Suiche and Guerrero-Saade said there is no evidence that attacks were email-based, as originally reported by others. ExPetru2019s original infection vector involved the update mechanism for Ukrainian financial software provider MEDoc. Kaspersky Lab also reported a government website for the city of Bakhmut in Ukraine was also compromised and used in a watering hole attack to spread ExPetr via a drive-by download. Attackers then leveraged a variant of the Mimikatz to steal administrator credentials and spread laterally within a network and across connected domains via open port 445 or 139 connections. It then tries to execute the malware remotely using either PSEXEC or WMIC tools. Unlike with WannaCry, where a kill switch neutralized the spread of the ransomware, no such mechanism exists for ExPetr. Instead, some within the security community are advocating the use of a localized kill switch that can stop ExPetr from infecting a single PC with the creation of a read-only file named u201cperfcu201d placed in the C:windows folder. Both researchers Guerrero-Saade and Suiche caution this is a temporary fix, noting large-scale attacks occur in several waves. u201cThe idea of a vaccine seems appealing at first, but I think a lot of what is being pushed about is snake oil hindsight. There is nothing preventing the attackers from changing that one file name in a second wave or throwing a random number generator into the malware,u201d Guerrero-Saade said. u201cThen your vaccine doesnu2019t work. I donu2019t like giving a false sense of security to network administrators.u201d Mitigation recommendations for future ExPetr variant attacks include a hardening of security around an enterpriseu2019s Active Directory, paring back user privileges, disabling SMBv1 and applying all associated patches such as Microsoftu2019s MS17-010. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658976cefc42b00293b1b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Petya Ransomware Encrypts Master File Table", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/petya-ransomware-encrypts-master-file-table/117024/", "Date" : "March 28, 2016 , 2:33 pm", "Article" : "First ransomware locked your desktop. Then it encrypted your files. Not long after, webservers, shared drives and backups were targeted. Now? Introducing Petya, ransomware that targets the Master Boot Record. Spotted in email campaigns sent to human resources offices in German companies, the malware encrypts the compromised computeru2019s master file table and demands .9 Bitcoin in return for the decryption key; that total amounts to about $380 USD. Researchers at BleepingComputer said on Friday that the malware is spreading in emails that contain a Dropbox link that will lead to a file that installs the ransomware. The malware replaces the boot driveu2019s Master Boot Record with a malicious loader. The malware forces Windows to reboot and displays a phony check disk (CHKDSK) operation to the victim while the malware executes in the background and encrypts the master file table.  u201cDuring this fake CHKDSK stage, Petya willu00a0encryptu00a0the Master File Tableu00a0on the drive,u201d BleepingComputer wrote in its analysis. u201cOnce the MFT is corrupted, or encrypted in this case, the computer does not know where files are located, or if they even exist, and thus they are not accessible.u201d The victim will then see a ransom note displayed before Windows boots explaining that the hard drive is encrypted and provides the victim with directions on how to download Tor in order to access the attackeru2019s payment website and how to pay the ransom in Bitcoin. The appearance of Petya is just the latest ransomware strain to arrive with new functionality to frustrate analysts and security countermeasures. Just last week, a new sample called PowerWare was found on a healthcare network. The malware spreads in spam campaigns and uses social engineering to entice the victim to enable macros in order to view a supposed invoice in an attached Word document. The macro opens a command line and executes the native Windows PowerShell to download a malicious script. The malware is fileless, meaning that it does not load its binaries onto the hard drive. By leveraging PowerShell, it not only writes malware files to the hard drive, but the activity looks like legitimate activity on the machine. The discovery of PowerShell came on the heels of another Locky attack that took a Kentucky hospital network offline. Locky also relies on the user to enable macros in order to download the malware and encrypt hard drives. " }n"
%%%VPNFilter2018——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c3c36cefc41c844ab205" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Group That Caused Power Outage Stops Focusing Exclusively on Ukraine", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/group-caused-power-outage-stops-focusing-exclusively-ukraine", "Date" : "June 07, 2018", "Article" : "Electrum, the Russia-linked hacker group believed to be responsible for the 2016 power outage in Ukraine, no longer focuses exclusively on this country, according to industrial cybersecurity firm Dragos. Electrum is said to have used Crashoverride/Industroyer, a piece of malware designed to target industrial control systems (ICS), to cause the power outage in December 2016. Researchers have also found links to Sandworm (aka TeleBots and BlackEnergy), which has been blamed for the 2015 power outage that hit Ukraine. Sandworm is also believed to have played a role in the ongoing VPNFilter campaign. According to Dragos, Electrum initially focused on development and facilitating Sandworm attacks. However, starting with the Crashoverride attack, it took on operational tasks as well. The group is still active and starting with last year it has been seen focusing on organizations outside of Ukraine. While Dragos is unable to disclose which regions have been targeted, the company tells SecurityWeek that the hackers have launched attacks on organizations in the water and electric sectors. The security firm has been monitoring Electrum and earlier this year it came across new information on the threat actoru2019s infiltration techniques and capabilities of the Crashoverride malware. Researchers say the group relies on common attack methods rather than zero-day vulnerabilities and exploits. u201cFor instance, the group used Microsoft SQL database servers as the gateway that bridges both the business and industrial control networks, to successfully compromise industrial control systems where they used stolen credentials to execute code,u201d explained Sergio Caltagirone, director of threat intelligence at Dragos.u00a0  Learn More at SecurityWeek's 2018 ICS Cyber Security Conference The company told SecurityWeek it had not identified any new deployment of the Crashoverride malware. u201cCrashoverride was a very specific framework for electric grid attacks. We would only expect to see this immediately prior to an ICS impact,u201d it said. u201cThe groupu2019s ongoing activity and link to the Sandworm team indicate Electrumu2019s sponsor could direct ICS disruption operations to other geographic areas,u201d Caltagirone noted. u201cDragos considers Electrum to be one of the most competent and sophisticated threat actors currently in the ICS industry.u201d Dragos has published brief reports on several of the groups that pose a threat to ICS, including Iran-linkedu00a0Chrysene, Russia-linkedu00a0Allanite, andu00a0Xenotime, the group believed to be behind the Triton/Trisis attacks. Last week, it reported that a threat actor linked to North Koreau2019s Lazarus Group had stopped targeting organizations in the United States. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c3c66cefc41c844ab20b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "VPNFilter Targets More Devices Than Initially Thought", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/vpnfilter-targets-more-devices-initially-thought", "Date" : "June 06, 2018", "Article" : " Researchers continue to analyze the VPNFilter attack and they have discovered new capabilities and determined that the threat targets a larger number of devices than initially believed. Cisco Talosu2019 initial report on VPNFilter said the threat targeted 16 routers and network-attached storage (NAS) devices from Linksys, MikroTik, Netgear, TP-Link and QNAP. It turns out that not only is the malware capable of hacking more device models from these vendors, it can also take control of products from ASUS, D-Link, Huawei, Ubiquiti, UPVEL, and ZTE. Talos now lists a total of more than 50 impacted devices. While researchers have identified a sample targeting UPVEL products, they have not been able to determine exactly which models are affected. Experts have also found a new stage 3 endpoint exploitation module that injects malicious content into traffic as it passes through a compromised network device. The new module, dubbed u201cssler,u201d provides data exfiltration and JavaScript injection capabilities by intercepting traffic going to port 80. Attackers can control which websites are targeted and where the stolen data is stored. u201cWith this new finding, we can confirm that the threat goes beyond what the actor could do on the network device itself, and extends the threat into the networks that a compromised network device supports,u201d Talos explained. Another new stage 3 module discovered after the initial analysis, dubbed u201cdistr,u201d allows stage 2 modules to remove the malware from a device and then make that device unusable. One interesting capability of VPNFilter is to monitor the network for communications over the Modbus SCADA protocol. Talos has conducted further analysis of this sniffer and published additional details. When it was discovered, the VPNFilter botnet had ensnared roughly 500,000 devices across 54 countries. However, experts believe the main target is Ukraine and, along with U.S. authorities, attributed the threat to Russia, specifically the group known as Sofacy, with possible involvement of the actor tracked as Sandworm. The FBI has managed to disrupt the botnet by seizing one of its domains, but researchers noticed that the attackers have not given up and continue to target routers in Ukraine. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c3cb6cefc41c844ab211" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "VPNFilter Continues Targeting Routers in Ukraine", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/vpnfilter-continues-targeting-routers-ukraine", "Date" : "June 04, 2018", "Article" : "Despite their infrastructure being disrupted, the hackers behind the VPNFilter botnet continue targeting routers located in Ukraine, which is believed to be the campaignu2019s primary target. When Cisco Talos brought the existence of VPNFilter to light last month, the botnet had ensnared at least 500,000 routers and network-attached storage (NAS) devices across 54 countries. The malware can intercept data passing through the compromised device, it can monitor the network for communications over the Modbus SCADA protocol, and also has destructive capabilities that can be leveraged to make an infected device unusable. During the first stage of the infection process, once it completed initialization, the malware attempted to obtain an IP address from images hosted on the Photobucket service. If that failed, it would try to acquire the IP from an image hosted on a backup domain, toknowall.com. That IP pointed to a server hosting the stage 2 payload. Photobucket has closed the accounts used in the attack and the FBI has managed to take control of the toknowall.com domain, thus disrupting the operation. However, VPNFilter is designed to open a listener and wait for a specific trigger packet if the backup domain fails as well. This allows the attacker to still provide the IP for the stage 2 component. While itu2019s unclear exactly what else the FBI and cybersecurity firms did to disrupt the botnet, researchers at Jask and GreyNoise Intelligence noticed that VPNFilter has continued to target routers even after Talos published its report and the toknowall.com domain was seized. Experts have observed some IPs scanning port 2000 for vulnerable MikroTik routers located exclusively in Ukraine. The source IPs have been traced to countries such as Russia, Brazil, the United States, and Switzerland. u201cActivity like this raises some interesting questions about indications of ongoing Ukraine targeted campaigns, a likely subject for future research,u201d Jask wrote in a blog post. The VPNFilter attack was allegedly launched by Russia u2013 specifically the group known as Sofacy, APT28, Pawn Storm, Fancy Bear, and Sednit u2013 and the main target is believed to be Ukraine. Some links have also been found between the VPNFilter malware and BlackEnergy, which has been used by a different Russia-linked threat actor known as Sandworm. The FBI has viewed Sofacy and Sandworm as the same group when it attributed VPNFilter to Russia. The VPNFilter malware has been observed targeting devicesu00a0fromu00a0Linksys, u00a0MikroTik, u00a0Netgear, TP-Linku00a0andu00a0QNAP. u00a0All of these vendors have published advisories to warn their customers about the threat. The FBI has advised users to reboot their routers to temporarily disrupt the malware. While rebooting a router is typically enough to remove a piece of malware, VPNFilter has a clever persistence mechanism that helps its stage 1 component survive a reboot of the device. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bc826cefc42b00293476" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Destructive and MiTM Capabilities of VPNFilter Malware Revealed", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2018/06/vpnfilter-router-malware.html", "Date" : "2018-06-06T03:23:00-11:00", "Article" : "It turns out that the threat of the massive VPNFilter botnet malware that was discovered late last month is beyond what we initially thought. Security researchers from Cisco's Talos cyber intelligence have today uncovered more details about VPNFilter malware, an advanced piece of IoT botnet malware that infected more than 500,000 routers in at least 54 countries, allowing attackers to spy on users, as well as conduct destructive cyber operations. Initially, it was believed that the malware targets routers and network-attached storage from Linksys, MikroTik, NETGEAR, and TP-Link, but a more in-depth analysis conducted by researchers reveals that the VPNFilter also hacks devices manufactured by ASUS, D-Link, Huawei, Ubiquiti, QNAP, UPVEL, and ZTE. "First, we have determined that are being targeted by this actor, including some from vendors that are new to the target list. These new vendors are. New devices were also discovered from Linksys, MikroTik, Netgear, and TP-Lin," the researchers say. To hijack devices manufactured by above listed affected vendors, the malware simply relies on publicly-known vulnerabilities or use default credentials, instead of exploiting zero-day vulnerabilities. VPNFilter 'ssler' u2014 Man-in-the-Middle Attack Module Besides this, the researchers primarily shared technical details on a new stage 3 module, named "ssler," which is an advanced network packet sniffer that, if installed, allows hackers to intercept network traffic passing through an infected router and deliver malicious payloads using man-in-the-middle attacks. "Ssler module provides data exfiltration and JavaScript injection capabilities by intercepting all traffic passing through the device destined for port 80," the researchers say. This 3rd-stage module also makes the malware capable of maintaining a persistent presence on an infected device, even after a reboot. The ssler module has been designed to deliver custom malicious payloads for specific devices connected to the infected network using a parameter list, which defines the module's behavior and which websites should be targeted. These parameters include settings to define the location of a folder on the device where stolen data should be stored, the source and destination IP address for creating iptable rules, as well as the targeted URL of the JavaScript injection. To setup packet sniffing for all outgoing web requests on port 80, the module configures the device's iptables immediately after its installation to redirect all network traffic destined for port 80 to its local service listening on port 8888. "To ensure that these rules do not get removed, ssler deletes them and then adds them back approximately every four minutes," the researchers explain. To target HTTPS requests, the ssler module also performs SSLStrip attack, i.e., it downgrades HTTPS connections to HTTP, forcing victim web browsers into communicating over plaintext HTTP. VPNFilter 'dstr' u2014 Device Destruction Module As briefed in our previous article, VPNFilter also has a destructive capability (dstr module) that can be used to render an infected device unusable by deleting files necessary for normal device operation. The malware triggers a killswitch for routers, where it first deliberately kills itself, before deleting the rest of the files on the system [named vpnfilter, security, and tor], possibly in an attempt to hide its presence during the forensic analysis. This capability can be triggered on individual victim machines or en masse, potentially cutting off internet access for hundreds of thousands of victims worldwide. Simply Rebooting Your Router is Not Enough Despite the FBI seizure of a key command and control server right after the discovery of VPNFilter, the botnet still remains active, due to its versatile, multi-stage design. Stage 1 of the malware can survive a reboot, gaining a persistent foothold on the infected device and enabling the deployment of stages 2 and 3 malware. So, each time an infected device is restarted, stages 2 and 3 are re-installed on the device. This means, even after the FBI seized the key C&C server of VPNFilter, hundreds of thousands of devices already infected with the malware, likely remain infected with stage 1, which later installs stages 2 and 3. Therefore, rebooting alone is not enough to completely remove the VPNFilter malware from infected devices, and owners of consumer-grade routers, switches, and network-attached storage devices need to take additional measures, which vary from model to model. For this, router owners are advised to contact their manufacturer. For some devices, resetting routers to factory default could remove the potentially destructive malware, along with removing stage 1, while some devices can be cleaned up with a simple reboot, followed by updating the device firmware. And as I said earlier, mark these words again: if your router cannot be updated, throw it away and buy a new one. Your security and privacy is more than worth a router's price." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bc876cefc42b00293478" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "FBI seizes control of a massive botnet that infected over 500,000 routers", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2018/05/vpnfilter-botnet-malware.html", "Date" : "2018-05-23T22:59:00-11:00", "Article" : "Shortly after Cisco's released its early report on a large-scale hacking campaign that infected over half a million routers and network storage devices worldwide, the United States government announced the takedown of a key internet domain used for the attack. Yesterday we reported about a piece of highly sophisticated IoT botnet malware that infected over 500,000 devices in 54 countries and likely been designed by Russia-baked state-sponsored group in a possible effort to cause havoc in Ukraine, according to an early report published by Cisco's Talos cyber intelligence unit on Wednesday. Dubbed VPNFilter by the Talos researchers, the malware is a multi-stage, modular platform that targets small and home offices (SOHO) routers and storage devices from Linksys, MikroTik, NETGEAR, and TP-Link, as well as network-access storage (NAS) devices. Meanwhile, the court documents unsealed in Pittsburgh on the same day indicate that the FBI has seized a key web domain communicating with a massive global botnet of hundreds of thousands of infected SOHO routers and other NAS devices. The court documents said the hacking group behind the massive malware campaign is Fancy Bear, a Russian government-aligned hacking group also known as APT28, Sofacy, X-agent, Sednit, Sandworm, and Pawn Storm. The hacking group has been in operation since at least 2007 and has been credited with a long list of attacks over the past years, including the 2016 hack of the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and Clinton Campaign to influence the U.S. presidential election. "This operation is the first step in the disruption of a botnet that provides the Sofacy actors with an array of capabilities that could be used for a variety of malicious purposes, including intelligence gathering, theft of valuable information, destructive or disruptive attacks, and the misattribution of such activities," John Demers, the Assistant Attorney General for National Security, said in a statement. Among other, Talos researchers also found evidence that the VPNFilter source code share code with versions of BlackEnergyu2014the malware responsible for multiple large-scale attacks targeting devices in Ukraine that the U.S. government has attributed to Russia. VPNFilter has been designed in a way that it could be used to secretly conduct surveillance on its targets and gather intelligence, interfere with internet communications, monitor industrial control or SCADA systems, such as those used in electric grids, other infrastructure and factories, as well as conduct destructive cyber attack operations. The seizure of the domain that is part of VPNFilter's command-and-control infrastructure allows the FBI to redirect attempts by stage one of the malware (in an attempt to reinfect the device) to an FBI-controlled server, which will capture the IP address of infected devices and pass on to authorities around the globe who can remove the malware. Users of SOHO and NAS devices that are infected with VPNFilter are advised to reboot their devices as soon as possible, which eliminates the non-persistent second stage malware, causing the persistent first-stage malware on their infected device to call out for instructions. "Although devices will remain vulnerable to reinfection with the second stage malware while connected to the Internet, these efforts maximize opportunities to identify and remediate the infection worldwide in the time available before Sofacy actors learn of the vulnerability in their command-and-control infrastructure," the DoJ said. Since VPNFilter does not exploit any zero-day vulnerability to infect its victims and instead searches for devices still exposed to known vulnerabilities or having default credentials, users are strongly recommended to change default credentials for their devices to prevent against the malware. Moreover, always put your routers behind a firewall, and turn off remote administration until and unless you really need it. If your router is by default vulnerable and can't be updated, it is time you buy a new one. You need to be more vigilant about the security of your smart IoT devices." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657416cefc42b00293901" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "VPNFilter Malware Impact Larger Than Previously Thought", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/vpnfilter-malware-impact-larger-than-previously-thought/132582/", "Date" : "June 6, 2018 , 5:21 pm", "Article" : "Researchers say the impact of the VPNFilteru00a0malware discovered last month is larger than originally reported. On Wednesday, Cisco Talos researchers said they now believe the malware has infected twice the number of router brands than previously stated. They added that VPNFilter also delivers a more potent punch than they originally thought, and have identified a previously unidentified malicious malware module. On May 23, Talos researchers first reported that Russian-speaking threat actors, with links to the BlackEnergy APT group, were behind the VPNFilter malware that infected 500,000 router brands (ranging from Linksys, MikroTik, NETGEAR and TP-Link as well as small office network attached storage (NAS) devices). At the time, known malicious capabilities of VPNFilter included bricking the host device, executing shell commands for further manipulation, creating a ToR configuration for anonymous access to the device, or maliciously configuring the routeru2019s proxy port and proxy URL to manipulate browsing sessions. In updated research, Cisco Talos said the range of targeted routers now includes those made by manufacturers ASUS, D-Link, Huawei, Ubiquiti, UPVEL and ZTE, bringing the total number ofu00a0router models targeted by VPNFilter adversaries to 75. u201cThese new discoveries have shown us that the threat from VPNFilter continues to grow,u201d Talos wrote in a technical breakdown of the malware on Wednesday. A closer examination of VPNFilter also demonstrates that the malware has the capability to infect more than the targeted routers and NAS devices u2014 and can traverse into the networks that those devices support. u201cIf successful, the actor would be able to deploy any desired additional capability into the environment to support their goals, including rootkits, exfiltration capability and destructive malware,u201d researchers wrote. To boot, Talos said that it has found a new stage-three module capable of injecting malicious content into web traffic as it passes through targeted network devices. Researchers identified the module as u201cssler,u201d or an u201cendpoint exploitation module u2014 JavaScript injection.u201d u201cAt the time of our initial posting, we did not have all of the information regarding the suspected stage-three modules. The new module allows the actor to deliver exploits to endpoints via a man-in-the-middle capability (e.g. they can intercept network traffic and inject malicious code into it without the useru2019s knowledge),u201d researchers wrote. An additional u201cdstru201d (device destruction module) component to the malware was also identified, which is u201cused to render an infected device inoperable by deleting files necessary for normal operation,u201d researchers wrote. u201cIt deletes all files and folders related to its own operation first before deleting the rest of the files on the system, possibly in an attempt to hide its presence during a forensic analysis.u201d Lastly, researchers discussed new insights into a stage-three packet-sniffer module that they said was targeting industrial control system traffic. The sniffer specifically singled out the SafeStream Gigabit Broadband VPN router TP-LINK R600VPN. u201cVPNFilter is still in full force, in the wild, infecting a broader set of devices than known previously, which makes it quite concerning still,u201d wrote Derek Manky, global security strategist with Fortinet FortiGuard Labs, in an email. u201cThis is a good example of how even exposed campaigns can continue to move with velocity.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657586cefc42b0029392d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "VPNFilter Malware Infects 500k Routers Including Linksys, MikroTik, NETGEAR", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/vpnfilter-malware-infects-500k-routers-including-linksys-mikrotik-netgear/132212/", "Date" : "May 23, 2018 , 12:48 pm", "Article" : "Malware called VPNFilter has infected 500,000 router brands ranging from Linksys, MikroTik, NETGEAR and TP-Link that are mostly used in home offices. Researchers at Cisco Talos said they decided to warn the public of the threat despite the fact the infected devices and malware are still under investigation. Researchers said their investigation into VPNFilter has been over the last several months and included both law enforcement and private-sector intelligence partners. u201cWe have not completed our research, but recent events have convinced us that the correct way forward is to now share our findings so that affected parties can take the appropriate action to defend themselves,u201d researchers wrote in a Wednesdayu00a0post. Talos believes the attacks are being perpetrated by state-sponsored or state-affiliated actors and that an attack leveraging those compromised devices could be u201cimminent.u201d Researchers canu2019t say for sure who is behind VPNFilter, but say code used by the malware authors overlap with BlackEnergy malware used in previous attacks in the Ukraine. Currently, VPNFilter malware has been found mostly on devices in the Ukraine, but also in 54 additional countries. u201cThe behavior of this malware on networking equipment is particularly concerning, as components of the VPNFilter malware allows for theft of website credentials and monitoring of Modbus SCADA protocols,u201d researchers wrote. Researchers said the malware has destructive capabilities that allow an attacker to either infect a device or render it unusable. u201c[This] can be triggered on individual victim machines or en masse, and has the potential of cutting off internet access for hundreds of thousands of victims worldwide,u201d the report stated. More troubling to researchers, as of Thursday they u201cobserved another substantial increase in newly acquired VPNFilter victims focused in Ukraine.u201d The malware itself is multi-staged with phase one including VPNFilter targeting a number of CPU architectures of devices running firmware based on Busybox and Linux. u201cThe main purpose of these first-stage binaries is to locate a server providing a more fully featured second stage, and to download and maintain persistence for this next stage on infected devices,u201d Talos wrote. Researchers said that this method of achieving persistence differs from other similar IoT malware such as Mirai. The Mirai malware could be removed from a device with a simple reboot. VPNFilter, on the other hand, u201cis capable of modifying non-volatile configuration memory values and adds itself to crontab, the Linux job scheduler, to achieve persistence,u201d according to the report. After the malware has burrowed its way into a systemu2019s memory, it begins to download an image from the image hosting site Photobucket, or from the domain toknowall[.]com as a backup. From the image downloaded, the malware extracts an IP address embedded in the imageu2019s EXIF metadata that is used as a u201clisteneru201d for the malware to receive instructions to initiate stage two. u201cThe stage 2 malware first sets up the working environment by creating a modules folder (/var/run/vpnfilterm) and a working directory (/var/run/vpnfilterw). Afterward, it will run in a loop, where it first reaches out to a C2 server, and then executes commands retrieved from the C2,u201d researchers wrote. Malicious capabilities of VPNFilter include bricking the host device, executing shell commands for further manipulation, creating a ToR configuration for anonymous access to the device, or maliciously configuring the routeru2019s proxy port and proxy URL to manipulate browsing sessions. A third stage of the malware has also been observed where attackers leverage as many as two plugin modules u2013 a packet sniffer and a communication plugin. Both leverage ToR to cloak communications.u00a0The packet sniffer module is capable of intercepting network traffic through a u201craw socketu201d and looks for strings used in HTTP basic authentications. u201cThis allows the attackers to understand, capture, and track the traffic flowing through the device,u201d researchers said. Links made to the Russian-speaking actors with the BlackEnergy APT group were made when Cisco Talos researchers closely examined the malwareu2019s encrypted binaries. u201cAnalysis of this RC4 implementation shows that it is identical to the implementation used in BlackEnergy, which is believed by law enforcement agencies to originate with a state actor,u201d researchers stated. u201cVPNFilter is an expansive, robust, highly capable, and dangerous threat that targets devices that are challenging to defend. Its highly modular framework allows for rapid changes to the actoru2019s operational infrastructure, serving their goals of misattribution, intelligence collection, and finding a platform to conduct attacks,u201d Talos researchers said. " }n"
%%%TeslaCrypt2015——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4326cefc41c844ab2c4" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Alleged Author of Locker Ransomware Publishes Decryption Keys", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/alleged-author-locker-ransomware-publishes-decryption-keys", "Date" : "June 01, 2015", "Article" : "An individual claiming to be the developer of the crypto ransomware known as Locker has published the private keys needed to recover the files taken hostage by the threat. u201cI am the author of the Locker ransomware and I'm very sorry about that has happened. It was never my intention to release this,u201d reads a Pastebin post signed by u201cPoka BrightMinds.u201d A CSV file containing Bitcoin addresses and RSA keys has been made available, along with information on the structure of the encrypted files. The alleged author claims that files will also be automatically decrypted starting June 2 at midnight. The database file contains over 62,000 rows, but most of the keys have not been used, according to the alleged Locker developer. Several users have confirmed on the Bleeping Computer forum that the published decryption keys are valid. Malware analyst and ransomware expert Nathan Scott has developed Locker Unlocker, a simple tool that allows victims to recover their files. Locker demands the payment of 0.1 Bitcoin for the decryption key. If the ransom is not paid within 72 hours, the amount increases to 1 Bitcoin. The threat has been distributed with the aid of a Trojan downloader, which received a command instructing it to install Locker on infected systems on May 25. Many users have been skeptical about the alleged authoru2019s good intentions, and some have pointed out that he should return the Bitcoins paid by victims if he is truly sorry for his actions. While some have speculated that the individual who released the decryption keys might be a programmer hired to create Locker or that his work has been stolen and abused, many people donu2019t think he is innocent. Another piece of ransomware that has made numerous headlines over the past weeks is TeslaCrypt. In April, Cisco released a tool that recovers the master encryption key used by TeslaCrypt and restores the content of encrypted files. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c45b6cefc41c844ab30a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "NoMoreRansom: Free Decryption for Latest Cryakl Ransomware", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/nomoreransom-free-decryption-latest-cryakl-ransomware", "Date" : "February 12, 2018", "Article" : "Decryption keys for a current version of Cryakl ransomware have been obtained and uploaded to the NoMoreRansom website. Victims of Cryakl can potentially recover encrypted files with the Rakhni Decryptor available for free from Kaspersky Lab or NoMoreRansom. NoMoreRansom is a collaborative public/private project launched by Europol, the Dutch National Police, Kaspersky Lab and McAfee in July 2016. Its purpose is to help ransomware victims recover encrypted files through the use of decryptors. Since its launch, other national law enforcement agencies and additional private companies have joined the project. There are now 52 decryption tools available on the site, able to recover files from 84 ransomware families. The project now comprises more than 120 partners, including more than 75 private organizations. The Cypriot and Estonian police are the most recent law enforcement agencies to join, while KPN, Telenor and The College of Professionals in Information and Computing (CPIC) have joined as new private sector partners. Europol claims that the site has enabled more than 35,000 ransomware victims to recover their files without paying a ransom u2013 preventing criminals from profiting from more than u20ac10 million. The Rakhni Decryptor, developed by Kaspersky Lab, could already decrypt older versions of Cryakl u2013 which first appeared in 2015. It could not, however, decrypt the latest version u2013 which it now does. The Belgian Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) learned that Belgian citizens had been victims of this new version of Cryakl. It was able to locate a C2 server in an unspecified neighboring country. The Netherlands is one neighbor state that is often used by criminals to host their malicious servers. u201cLed by the federal prosecutor's office,u201d announced Europol Thursday, u201cthe Belgian authorities seized this and other servers while forensic analysis worked to retrieve the decryption keys.u201d Kaspersky Lab provided technical expertise, and has now included the recovered keys in its Rakhni Decryptor, uploaded on behalf of the Belgian authorities. The Rakhni Decryptor, says Kaspersky Lab, u201cDecrypts files affected by Rakhni, Agent.iih, Aura, Autoit, Pletor, Rotor, Lamer, Cryptokluchen, Lortok, Democry, Bitman (TeslaCrypt) version 3 and 4, Chimera, Crysis (versions 2 and 3), Jaff, Dharma and new versions of Cryakl ransomware.u201d The Belgian authorities are continuing their investigation into the operators of the seized C2 servers, but decided not to wait before making the recovered keys available to victims. It is, says Europol, u201canother successful example of how cooperation between law enforcement and internet security companies can lead to great results.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bc6e6cefc42b0029346f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Free Thanatos Ransomware Decryption Tool Released", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2018/06/free-ransomware-decryption-tools.html", "Date" : "2018-06-26T06:29:00-11:00", "Article" : "If your computer has been infected with Thanatos Ransomware and you are searching for a free ransomware decryption tool to unlock or decrypt your filesu2014your search is over here. Security researchers at Cisco Talos have discovered a weakness in the Thanatos ransomware code that makes it possible for victims to unlock their Thanatos encrypted files for free without paying any ransom in cryptocurrencies. Like all ransomware threats, Thanatos encrypts files and asks victims to pay for ransom in multiple cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin Cash, to decrypt their files. "Multiple versions of Thanatos have been leveraged by attackers, indicating that this is an evolving threat that continues to be actively developed by threat actors with multiple versions having been distributed in the wild," the researchers say. "Unlike other ransomware commonly being distributed, Thanatos does not demand ransom payments to be made using a single cryptocurrency like bitcoin. Instead, it has been observed supporting ransom payments in the form of Bitcoin Cash (BCH), Zcash (ZEC), Ethereum (ETH) and others." Once infected, all the encrypted filename extensions on the affected computer are changed to .THANATOS, and then a ransom note pops up whenever the user tries to log on to the system, instructing them to send the ransom money to a hardcoded cryptocurrency wallet address in order to decrypt the files. However, since Thanatos uses different encryption keys to encrypt each file on an infected system without storing them anywhere, it is impossible for malware authors to return users' data, even if the victims pay the ransom. Free Thanatos Ransomware Decryption Tool Cisco researchers analyzed the malware code and found a loophole in the design of the file encryption methodology used by Thanatos, using which they developed a free ransomware decryption tool that will help victims decrypt their files. Dubbed ThanatosDecryptor, the open source, free ransomware decryption tool can be downloaded from the GitHub website, which has recently been acquired by Microsoft for $7.5 billion, and works for Thanatos ransomware versions 1 and 1.1 Since the encryption keys used by Thanatos are derived based upon the number of milliseconds since the system last booted, it was possible for researchers to reverse engineer the logic and re-generate the same 32-bit encryption key using brute force attack and Windows Event Logs. "Since Thanatos does not modify the file creation dates on encrypted files, the key search space can be further reduced to approximately the number of milliseconds within the 24-hour period leading up to the infection," researchers explain. "At an average of 100,000 brute-force attempts per second (which was the baseline in a virtual machine used for testing), it would take roughly 14 minutes to successfully recover the encryption key in these conditions." For more detail about the Thanatos ransomware, you can head on to detailed blog post published by Cisco Talos today. How to Protect Yourself From Ransomware Attacks Most ransomware spread through phishing emails, malicious adverts on websites, and third-party apps and programs. Whether it's Locky, CoinVault, Thanatos, TeslaCrypt, or any other ransomware malware, the protection measures are standard. To safeguard against such ransomware attacks, you should always be suspicious of uninvited documents sent in an email and never click on links inside those documents unless verifying their sources. Check if macros are disabled in your MS Office apps. If not, block macros from running in MS Office files from the Internet. In order to always have a tight grip on all your important documents, keep a good backup routine in place that makes copies of your files to an external storage device which is not always connected to your PC. Moreover, make sure that you run an active behavioral-based antivirus security suite on your system that can detect and block such malware before it can infect your device, and always remember to keep them up-to-date." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35beba6cefc42b0029350d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "This Ransomware Unlocks Your Files For Free If You Infect Others", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2016/12/ransomware-malware.html", "Date" : "2016-12-09T02:20:00-11:00", "Article" : "Is your PC infected with Ransomware? Either pay the ransom amount to the attacker or spread the infection further to get the decryption keys. Yes, this new technique has been employed by cyber criminals with the latest round of ransomware threat, dubbed Popcorn Time. Initially discovered by MalwareHunterTeam, the new Popcorn Time Ransomware has been designed to give the victim's a criminal way of getting a free decryption key for their encrypted files and folders. Popcorn Time works similar to other popular ransomware threats, such as the Crysis Ransomware and TeslaCrypt, that encrypt various data stored on the infected computer and ask victims to pay a ransom amount to recover their data. But to get their important files back, Popcorn Time gives victims option to pay a ransom to the cyber criminal or infect two other people and have them pay the ransom to get a free decryption key. What's even worse? The victims are encouraged to pay the ransom of 1 Bitcoin (~$750) within seven days to receive decryption keys stored on a remote server owned by Popcorn Time's developers. If the ransom is not paid within this duration, the decryption key will be permanently deleted and retrieve important files will become impossible. Moreover, the code of the ransomware is incomplete that may indicate that if victims enter the wrong decryption key four times, the Popcorn Time ransomware will start deleting victims' files. Here's How the Popcorn Time Ransomware Threat Works: Once infected, the Popcorn Time Ransomware will check to see if the ransomware has been run already on the PC. If yes, the ransomware will terminate itself. If not, the Popcorn Time Ransomware will either download various images to use as backgrounds or start encrypting the files using AES-256 encryption. The encrypted files will have the ".filock" or ".kok" extension appended to it. While encrypting the data, the ransomware will display a fake screen that pretends to be the installation of the program. As soon as the encryption is finished, it will convert two base64 strings, save them as ransom notes known as restore_your_files.html and restore_your_files.txt, and then automatically display the HTML ransom note asking for 1 Bitcoin. Want a Free Decryption Key? Infect Two More People The Popcorn Time author provides a "nasty way" for a victim to get the free decryption key: Spread the Ransomware to two other people via the victim's "referral" link." If those two infected victims pay the ransom, then the first victim will supposedly get a free decryption key. To make this possible, the ransom note contains a URL pointing to a file located on the Popcorn Time's TOR server. Entering Wrong Decryption Key 4 Times and You are Screwed Up! When executed, the Popcorn Time ransomware will display a lock screen filled in with various information relating to victim's particular installation. The victim will also find a field where he/she can enter the decryption key given to them by the attacker after paying the ransom. The source code for Popcorn Time contains a function that suggests the threat to delete files if the victim enters the wrong decryption code four times. Since the Popcorn Time ransomware is still under development at the time of writing, many things are unclear and may change with time." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bf496cefc42b0029353b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "How to Decrypt TeslaCrypt Ransomware Files Using Master Key", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2016/05/decrypt-teslacrypt-ransomware.html", "Date" : "2016-05-19T08:28:00-11:00", "Article" : "Hereu2019s some good news for victims who are trying to unlock and remove TeslaCrypt ransomware. Now, you can decrypt all your important files that have been encrypted by TeslaCrypt ransomware. So, stop Googling about How to decrypt TeslaCrypt Ransomware encrypted files, as the malware authors themselves provided the solution to your problem. Since its launch in March last year, TeslaCrypt computer virus has been used in massive malvertising attacks. The ransomware, which often targets PC gamers, locks up files until a ransom is paid, usually $500 in Bitcoin. Infection generally comes through corrupted websites, malvertising or phishing emails. In a surprising move in the malware's story, the cybercriminals behind the nefarious TeslaCrypt ransomware have apparently shut down their operations and released a master key to the public that can unlock all encrypted files on PCs infected by the latest versions of TeslaCrypt. The icing on the cake is that the universal decryption key is free, so victims can decrypt their files without paying a single penny. Hereu2019s what one of the developers of TeslaCrypt posted on the TeslaCrypt Dark Website: "Project closed! Master key for decrypt: 440A241DD80FCC5664E861989DB716E08CE627D8D40C7EA360AE855C727A49EE. Wait for other people make universal decrypt software. We are sorry!" The above note was prompted by a query from an ESET security researcher, who had noticed the successive downfall of TeslaCrypt and asked the authors for a decryption key. The authors offered a free master key in an entirely surprising move and ESET quickly created a Free Ransomware Decryptor tool for TeslaCrypt, which is available for download from the ESET website. How to Use Master Ransomware Decryption Key Using the master key, security researcher has created a decryptor tool that is available for download, with detailed instructions, from the ESET website. Bleeping Computer has also released another TeslaCrypt ransomware decryptor tool, dubbed TeslaDecoder, with a much easy-to-use interface." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bf886cefc42b0029354c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Malvertising Campaign Hits Top Websites to Spread Ransomware", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2016/03/what-is-malvertising.html", "Date" : "2016-03-18T02:02:00-11:00", "Article" : "Hackers are always in search for an elite method to create loopholes in the cyberspace to implement the dark rules in the form of vulnerability exploitation. Top Trustworthy sites such as The New York Times, BBC, MSN, AOL and many more are on the verge of losing their face value as a malwertized advertisement campaign are looming around the websites, according to SpiderLabs. Here's what Happens to Users when Clicking Ads on these Big Brand Sites: The advertisements on the legit sites trick users into clicking on it, making them believe that these circulated ads come from a trusted networks. Once clicked, the malicious Ad redirects the user to a malicious website that hosts Angler Exploit Kit (AEK) to infect visitors by installing malware and ransomware on their computer. Angler Exploit Kit includes many malicious hacking tools and zero-day exploits that let hackers execute drive-by attacks on visitors' computers. In this case, the Angler kit scans for the vulnerable PCs and loads Bedep Trojan and TeslaCrypt Ransomware, opening doors for hackers to further install a variety of malicious programs. Buying Media-Related Domains to Spread Malicious Campaigns While conducting the background check, the security firm discovered that cyber criminals behind this advertising campaign made use of an expired website domain of Brentsmedia, an online marketing solution who discontinued their service earlier 2016. According to the web registrar records, Brentsmedia's domain was purchased by Pavel G Ashtahov on March 6th, the day just before the malvertising campaign kickstarted. Detailed analysis of this mischievous Ad campaign revealed that when a user tends to click on the malwertized Ad, it triggers a JSON file (Javascript Object Notation), which contains a list of security products for cross checking their presence in the victim's system. If any of the pre-defined products found installed, the malvertising Ads avoid loading the malicious payload to evade the detection by antivirus firms that could block the campaign if detected. But if not present, it will carry out the exploitation in a stealth mode, ultimately redirecting the user to the malicious page. The Intensity of the Malvertising! According to the researchers telemetry, these malicious Ads were delivered through two affiliate networks namely Adnxs, which has already resolved the issue, and Taggify, which has not paid any attention to the seriousness of the problem. Two more expired media-related domains exhibiting the same characteristics as brentsmedia[.]com: "envangmedia[.]com" and "markets.shangjiamedia[.]com", shows that another similarly named domain has already been registered. So there might be a possibility of hijacking "media" related branded domains for running malvertising campaigns, as a new generation threat to the global leaders." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657536cefc42b00293927" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Ransomware A Two-Year Nightmare in the Making", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ransomware-a-two-year-nightmare-in-the-making/118830/", "Date" : "June 22, 2016 , 1:23 pm", "Article" : "The scourge of ransomware over the past two years has been impressive u2013 and not in a good way. The number of frustrated computer users locked out of their PCs is at an all-time high with no signs of the ransomware epidemic relenting. According to security experts, the last two years have seen an astounding growth in the number of people encountering ransomware. Between April 2015 and March 2016 the number of users hit by ransomware rose 17.7 percent worldwide compared to the prior year, according a new report by Kaspersky Lab. The in-depth report reveals that tactics have changed significantly for ransomware criminals with crypto ransomware now the dominant strain of ransomware versus Windows blocker ransomware, where a user is blocked from accessing their OS or web browser via a pop-up window. According to Kaspersky Lab, incidents of encryption-based ransomware that locks up data on a PC has risen 25 percent over the past year jumping from 6.6 percent in 2014/2015 to 31 percent the preceding year. u00a0Correspondingly, the number of Windows blocker incidents dropped 13.03 percent, Kaspersky Lab reports. That shift from Windows blocker to crypto has been particularly detrimental to victims, the Kaspersky Lab reports points out. u201cThe biggest difference between the two types of ransomware: blockers and encryption ransomware is that blocker damage is fully reversible. Even in the worst case scenario, the owner of an infected PC could simply reinstall the OS to get all their files back,u201d wrote Kaspersky Lab. In the case of encryption ransomware, files are impossible to decrypt without a decryption key. For years, ransomware has been a constant, but it wasnu2019t until July 2014 that Kaspersky Lab noticed a spike in the number of users encountering some form of ransomware. Thatu2019s when a surge of 274,000 ransomware incidents were reported worldwide within Kaspersky Labu2019s sample set. The contributing factor to the spike was the prevalence of Trojan-Ransom.JS.SMSer.pn, a browser-based Windows blocker variant that attacked 31 percent of those affected by ransomware that month. For the next several months things got worse and by October 2015, Kaspersky Lab researchers recorded 428,400 ransomware attacks with 9.4 percent crypto based. Fast forward to March 2016 and incidents of encryption-based ransomware now represented 52 percent of attacks with the TeslaCrypt Trojan responsible for most incidents. In April, the most current numbers available, encryption ransomware represented 54 percent of attacks. Ironically, the fast and furious rise in encryption ransomware is tied to a relatively small group of malware variants that are responsible for 77.5 percent of all crypto infections between 2014 and 2015. u201cIn the first period, from April 2014 to March 2015, the most actively propagated encryptors were the following groups of malware: CryptoWall, Cryakl, Scatter, Mor, CTB-Locker, TorrentLocker, Fury, Lortok, Aura, and Shade,u201d wrote Kaspersky Lab. A year later TeslaCrypt and CTB-Locker dominated the encryption ransomware landscape representing 70 percent of those who reported encountering ransomware between 2015 and 2016. Over the last two years ransomware has also shifted who it targets. Two years ago 93 percent of those targeted by ransomware were home users. Today the number of corporate users attacked with ransomware has doubled to 13 percent from 6.8 percent in 2014. Thinking geographically, hardest hit by the scourge of ransomware is India (10 percent), Russian Federation (6 percent), Kazakhstan (6 percent) and Italy (5 percent) with the highest share of users attacked with ransomware. Within Kaspersky Labu2019s top 10 list of countries the United States (1 percent) and Ukraine (4 percent) are at the bottom. Of note, over the past two years India moved from 7th to 1st place in terms of countries targeted by ransomware. Of interest to the U.S. geography is the fact that 40 percent of ransomware attacks use crypto-based variants versus 14 percent just a year ago. The U.S. is also seeing the third highest percentage increase in year-over-year attacks with the Russian Federation and India experiencing the largest uptick in ransomware attacks. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36575e6cefc42b00293938" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Decryption Utility Unlocks Files Encrypted by Jaff Ransomware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/decryption-utility-unlocks-files-encrypted-by-jaff-ransomware/126276/", "Date" : "June 14, 2017 , 3:26 pm", "Article" : "A weakness discovered in Jaff ransomware by researchers has led to the creation of decryption keys to unlock files locked by the malware. u201cWe have found a vulnerability in Jaffu2019s code for all the variants to date. Thanks to this, it is now possible to recover usersu2019 files (encrypted with the .jaff, .wlu, or .sVn extensions) for free,u201d Kaspersky Lab said in a prepared statement announcing the availability of the decryption keys. Jaffu00a0was only first identified last month. At the time it was being distributed by Necurs botnet u2013 the same botnet behind the Locky and Dridex campaigns. Attacks have included massive spam campaigns that include PDF attachments with an embedded Microsoft Word document functioning as the initial downloader for the ransomware. According to researchers, if recipients downloaded and enabled a Word macro associated with the .PDF the ransomware was downloaded. Actors behind the malware then demanded a ransom of between 0.5 to 2 Bitcoin (approximately $1,500 u2013 $5,000, based on current exchange rates). Earlier this month, the ransomware made news when researchers found a strain of the malwareu2019s C2 shared backend infrastructure with a black market bazaar selling stolen bank and credit card account information. Top countries impacted by the malware include China, India, Russia, Egypt, and Germany, according to Kaspersky Lab. The free decryption tool for unlocking files has been added to the RakhniDecryptor (version 1.21.2.1). Kaspersky Lab has previously released more thanu00a0a dozen decryption keys for ransomware variants of CoinVault, TeslaCrypt, Wildfire and Crybola. A full list of available decryption utilities can be found at Kaspersky Labu2019s No Ransom Project website. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657666cefc42b0029394a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Decryption Utilities Unlock Files Encrypted by All TeslaCrypt Versions", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/decryption-utilities-unlock-files-encrypted-by-all-teslacrypt-versions/118602/", "Date" : "June 10, 2016 , 12:16 pm", "Article" : "For close to a month, the master encryption key unlocking files ravaged by TeslaCrypt has been publicly available, putting an end to a profitable strain of ransomware. In the weeks since, various decryptors have been developed that can be used to unlock files. Kaspersky Lab, for one, updated its Rakhni utility to include TeslaCrypt v3 and 4 decryption capabilities, and yesterday, Cisco joined the fray, updating its own decryptor to address all four versions of TeslaCrypt. The master key, released on May 19, unlocked files encrypted by versions 3 and 4 of TeslaCrypt, said Earl Carter, security research engineer with Cisco Talos, the companyu2019s research arm. u201cWeu2019re not sure [the master key] works on previous versions,u201d Carter said. u201cVersion 2 had a flaw and was decrypted, plus we had the decryptor for the original. All the different decryptors required the user to figure out which version they were infected with and find the right decryptor. We updated our original tool so that now everything is in one spot.u201d Itu2019s still a mystery as to why TeslaCrypt was shut down by its maintainers. Ransomware continues to hit businesses and consumers unabated, and the FBI puts first quarter revenues at more than $200 million and estimates it will be a billion-dollar business by yearu2019s end. Still TeslaCrypt had its soft spots, and almost from the get-go, experts were able to find decryption keys hidden in its code and build utilities victims could use to unlock files. This would initiate a cat-and-mouse game where the criminals would batten down the encryption behind their malware, and researchers would dig deeper. u201cThere are a few that use symmetric encryption, and any time itu2019s on the box and you can find the key, you can decrypt files,u201d Carter said. u201cOthers using PKI keep the key off the box and itu2019s much harder to recover because it was never on the box in the first place.u201d Once one variant is decrypted, it becomes a calling card for other researchers to poke around too. In the case of TeslaCrypt, this could be a reason the operation as shut down. u201cRansomware is such a money-maker, everyone wants a piece of the pie,u201d Carter said. u201cWith all of these [TeslaCrypt] versions decrypted, it almost seems like they were not making as much money as they wanted. Itu2019s hard to guess, we really donu2019t have any data to back that up. But looking from the surface, that would appear to be the case. People were having success taking their software apart, they werenu2019t making the money they wanted, so they gave up.u201d The master key was dropped in a TeslaCrypt support site forum after a researcher from ESET saw hints the ransomware might be phased out and asked for the key. Experts at BleepingComputer said that CryptXXX might be the successor to TeslaCrypt; already popular exploit kits are distributing CryptXXX, and as a counter, some security companies, including Kaspersky Lab, have built decryptors for early versions of the malware. TeslaCryptu2019s encryption was updated fairly regularly in order to steer clear of security researchers and tools trying to analyze how it worked. By early this year, WordPress and Joomla sites infected with exploit kits such as Nuclear were in on the act, moving TeslaCrypt onto computers visiting those sites. In April, researchers at Endgame Inc., found two separate TeslaCrypt updates that included new obfuscation and evasion techniques, and an expansive and new list of targeted file extensions. Those attacks were primarily distributed via extensive spam campaigns. u201cExploit kits started dropping ransomware payloads versus keyloggers or click-fraud (malware),u201d Carter said. u201cExploit kits combined with malvertising made it real easy to target people.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657926cefc42b0029398c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Keys for Dharma Ransomware Released", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/keys-for-dharma-ransomware-released/124024/", "Date" : "March 2, 2017 , 11:34 am", "Article" : "Victims of the Dharma strain of ransomware can now get their files back, free of charge. Decryption keys for the ransomware were added to the Kaspersky Labu2019s Rakhni decryptor tool Thursday morning.  The tool, available on nomoreransom.orgu2014a site the company maintains with Europol, the Dutch National Police, and Intel Security, can also decrypt files encrypted by Chimera, Crysis, and the decryptoru2019s namesake, Rakhni. It was assumed keys for the ransomware would surface sooner than later after a user posted a link to whatu2019s believed to be the same keys in a BleepingComputer.com forum post on Wednesday. The user, u201cgektar,u201d posted a Pastebin link that contained a C header file which contained the keys. The keys were deemed legitimate after they were analyzed byu00a0Kaspersky Lab researchers but its unclear why the user posted them or what their affiliation with the ransomware is.  Lawrence Abrams, who maintains BleepingComputer site and forum, said Wednesday there was a good chance the keys were valid since the keys for Crysis, the ransomware that Dharma is based on, were released on the forums the same way previously. When he tested it against a Dharma infection Thursday morning Abrams said the Rakhni decryptor worked u201cflawlessly.u201d Dharma infections first began bubbling up last November when victimsu00a0began reporting that files under their c:/ drive had been encrypted with u201c.dharmau201d appended to the end of the eachu00a0files. In some cases theu00a0filenames were also reportedly changed to include an email address u201c<email>@india.com.u201d Researchers connected the dots between Dharma and Crysis last fall after noticing some similarities in hex patterns at the footer of the files. Kaspersky released the keys for Crysis, ransomware thatu00a0began making the rounds in February 2016 u2013 shortly after the ransomware TeslaCrypt was cracked, last November.u00a0The Crysis keys, likeu00a0the Dharma keys, wereu00a0first posted to a BleepingComputer.com forum as a Pastebin link to a header file written in C. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657b66cefc42b002939c6" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Threatpost News Wrap, May 20, 2016", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/threatpost-news-wrap-may-20-2016/118208/", "Date" : "May 20, 2016 , 11:46 am", "Article" : "Mike Mimoso and Chris Brook discuss the news of the week, including the LinkedIn breach, TeslaCrypt closing up shop, and a breakthrough in random number generation. The two also recap this weeku2019s Source conference in Boston.  Download:u00a0Threatpost_News_Wrap_May_20_2016.mp3 Music by Chris Gonsalves  " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36582c6cefc42b00293a83" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Decryptor Unlocks CryptXXX v3 Files", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-decryptor-unlocks-cryptxxx-v3-files/122625/", "Date" : "December 20, 2016 , 10:50 am", "Article" : "Researchers have neutralized the threat of the latest strain of the CryptXXX v.3 ransomware, releasing a decryption tool for unlocking files, and have added it to the RannohDecryptor, a free utility hosted by Kaspersky Labu2019s No Ransom Project. Previous decryption tools had been available for partial listu00a0of files locked up by CryptXXX v.3, but the latest goes a step further and recovers all files scrambled by the ransomware. The utility deals a blow to cybercriminals behind this latest CryptXXX ransomware, considered one of the most active ransomware families in the wild today.u00a0Approximately one quarter of CryptXXX victims are based in the United States; with Russia, Germany and Japan among other top targeted geographic regions. In April, researchers published a decryption tool for unscrambling files locked by an earlier version of CryptXXX. By June, cybercriminals had updated CryptXXX to outsmart those decryption tools and added a new credential-stealing module. At the time, Proofpoint researchers said CryptXXX authors were on track to rival Lockyu2019s infection rates and distribution reach. With the first version of CryptXXX, researchers were able to exploit a critical flaw in the encryption algorithm to create a decryption tool. With the CryptXXX v.2, ransomware authors updated the code, but still left flaws that Kaspersky Lab was able to leverage to create another updated decryption tool. With CyrptXXX v.3, theu00a0utility decrypts files locked by v.2 and v.3 of the ransomware. According to Kaspersky Lab researchers, the CryptXXX malwareu00a0is a DLL (dynamic-link library) written in Delphi and uses a variety of different encryption algorithms to attack files. Kaspersky Lab described three encryption methods the malware uses including RC4 with one key for all files, and two others that use RC4 and RSA to encryptu00a0the content of files and the RC4 keys, or a combination of RC4 and RSA where RC4 is used to encrypt the content of files and RSA is used to encrypt some file contents and the RC4 keys. CryptXXX v.3 locks files using the extensions .crypt, .cryp1 and .crypz. In its analysis, researchers point out that unlike Locky ransomware, that is most often delivered via Dridex spam campaigns, CryptXXX relies on driving traffic to malicious URLs infected with exploit kits Angler and Neutrino. As with earlier incarnations of the CryptXXX ransomware, v.3 also includes a module called stiller.dll that is downloaded to targeted PCs. The module is capable of stealing 130 different types of account credentials stored on the victimu2019s PC such as those used by e-mail clients, messenger programs and web browsers. u201cAfter the files are encrypted and all the valuable data is transferred to the criminals, the Trojan displays a message to the victim demanding a ransom,u201d Kaspersky Lab researchers said. Itu2019s unclear how much money is demanded by criminalsu00a0with this latest version of CryptXXX. In June, ransom payment analysis for CrpytXXX v.2 revealed the average payout for unlocking files was 1.3 bitcoin ($1,000). Kaspersky Lab has previously released more thanu00a0a dozen decryption keys for ransomware variants of CoinVault, TeslaCrypt, Wildfire and Crybola. A full list of available decryption utilities can be found at Kaspersky Labu2019s No Ransom website. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658336cefc42b00293a8a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Latest TeslaCrypt Targets New File Extensions, Invests Heavily in Evasion", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/latest-teslacrypt-targets-new-file-extensions-invests-heavily-in-evasion/117541/", "Date" : "April 20, 2016 , 1:53 pm", "Article" : "TeslaCrypt, like many of its ransomware cousins, doesnu2019t sleep on past success. Researchers at Endgame Inc., have found two updates for the cryptoransomware in the past two weeks that invest heavily in obfuscation and evasion techniques, and also target a host of new file extensions. These samples, researcher Amanda Rousseau told Threatpost, were found in attachments ofu00a0large-scale spam campaigns purporting to be shipping delivery notifications. Version 4.1A has been in circulation for about a week, Rousseau said, and targets a wide range of the usual file extensions, plus a handful of news ones that merit notice: .7z; .apk; .asset; .avi; .bak; .bik; .bsa; .csv; .d3dbsp; .das; .forge; .iwi; .lbf; .litemod; .litesql; .ltx; .m4a; .mp4; .rar; .re4; .sav; .slm; .sql; .tiff; .upk; .wma; .wmv; and .wallet. The use of spam to move TeslaCrypt is also a departure from recent outbreaks where exploit kits were infecting WordPress and Joomla websites and silently loading ransomware onto compromised machines. In this case, when the victim executes the infected .zip file attachment, a JavaScript downloaderu00a0is launched which uses Wscript, the Windows Script Host, to download the TeslaCrypt binary fromu00a0greetingsyoungqq[.]com/80.exe. Rousseau said, adding that analysis ofu00a0the malware has become a challenge because it initiates many code threads and debugging techniques to frustrate security tools. u201cItu2019s really like they are trying hard to hide strings in memory,u201d Rousseau said. u201cItu2019s much harder for [antivirus] to detect if itu2019s not scanning memory.  The use of Wscript complicates detection as well because the traffic appears to be legitimate Windows communication. Rousseau said that it took detection tools as many as four days to catch up to the technique and incorporate into signatures. She added that the command and control servers hosting TeslaCrypt have a finite shelf life before the attackers take them down and move them. The malware also uses COM object (component object model objects) to hide string extractions, and deletes zone identifiers, in the name of evasion. It also and tries to prevent ongoing monitoring by terminating a handful of Windows processes: Task Manager; Registry Editor; SysInternals Process Explorer; System Configuration; and Command Shell. The malware also makes a copy of itself to the disk and creates a registry value that points to the copy in order to maintain persistence. Endgame has published a reportu00a0with complete technical details, including more on the encryption used by the ransomware and its anti-debugging techniques. Rousseau said that these TeslaCrypt samples also snake through network shares the compromised computer has access to and tries to encrypt files on those shares. It also targets backup files by trying to delete the Volume Shadow Copy, a Windows backup service. If there are silver linings with the latest TeslaCrypt updates is that the malware uses AES 256 to encrypt files, not RSA 4096 as mentioned in the ransom note, and that there is a recovery file that accompanies the malware. u201cWe went through the encryption algorithm, and itu2019s pretty on point, but it does leave a recovery file on the system,u201d Rousseau said. u201cIf you use the old TeslaCrypt cracker and do an update on that code based on [what was found], you should be able to decrypt.u201d About a year ago, Cisco introduced a command-line utility that was capable to decrypting files lost to TeslaCrypt. Rousseau also said that the gang behind these most recent samples is borrowing a lot of code from older versions, in particular its use of COM objects and certain debugging techniques. u201cYou can tell there are following researchers closely, watching [decryptor] code thatu2019s released on Github and open source,u201d Rousseau said, pointing to the rapid changes in the past month starting with 4.0 to 4.1A in the last week or week and a half. u201cThere are slight tweaks to each version and from each cracker that comes out. They take the best of what was good a couple of months ago, and apply it to today.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36583a6cefc42b00293a98" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Generic Ransomware Detection Comes to OS X", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/generic-ransomware-detection-comes-to-os-x/117534/", "Date" : "April 20, 2016 , 8:00 am", "Article" : "With each new unrelenting ransomware sample, security researchers understand that no matter how quickly antivirus signatures are updated or how rapidly decryptors are built and shared, current defenses will continue to fall short. The problem is that most adequate defenses are sample-specific; Kaspersky Lab has built ransomware decryptors for CoinVault and Bitcryptor, and Cisco has a similar tool to unlock some TeslaCrypt infections, just to name two. Generic defense mechanisms are few and far between. Easy Sync Solutionsu2019 CryptoMonitor, which was acquired in January by Malwarebytes, for example, detects and blocks numerous samples on the Windows side before theyu2019re able to execute and begin encrypting files. On the OS X side there are admittedly few ransomware attacks, and even fewer generic detection mechanisms. Researcher Patrick Wardle, director of researcher at Synack and a known OS X hacker, today released his own generic OS X ransomware detector called RansomWhere? The utility monitors home directories on OS X machines for untrusted processes that are encrypting files. The user is presented with an alert while RansomWhere? blocks the process and waits for the user to decide whether to allow or terminate the process. u201cI saw that existing approaches arenu2019t working,u201d Wardle said u201cAntivirus has its shortcomings. KeRanger was signed with a legitimate Apple developer ID certificate that passed it off as a legitimate application. Gatekeeper is not going to block that. Youu2019ve got to think outside the box and take an approach that is not specimen specific.u201d KeRanger surfaced last month and was quickly labeled the first functional OS X ransomware sample by researchers at Palo Alto Networks. KeRanger saddled itself aboard a Trojanized version of the Transmission BitTorrent client in an attempt to infect Mac users. The fact that it was signed with a real Apple cert gave it legitimacy and allowed it to slip native OS X protections. But the ransomware shot itself in the foot by including a three-day period during which it lay dormant. This gave researchers a window to inform Apple and Transmission to block the certificate and remove the malware from client downloads. u201cRansomware is a great way for criminals to make a ton of money,u201d Wardle said. u201cIf you hack a computer and get credit card numbers, most have no idea what to do with that [stolen] data. You have to approach someone to get money out of those credit cards. u201cNow, you can write ransomware, and maybe crack a version of an app, put it up on Pirate Bay, and get a ton of infections and send me ransoms in Bitcoin. Thatu2019s whatu2019s driving this; itu2019s easy money and kinda crazy.u201d Wardle explains that his utility flags behavior as ransomware by first going through a number of checks, for example making a determination whether to trust a running process. Processes signed by Apple, or those approved by the user, are trusted, for example. It then monitors the behavior of untrusted processes to determine if new files that are created or modified are encrypted. If said processes create encrypted files quickly, the utility generates an alert that suspends the process and asks the user how to proceed. Wardle acknowledges that his 1.0 of version of the RansomWhere? utility has its limitations, and that the tool can be bypassed. Detection, he said, is reactive and the user is likely to lose a few files before an alert is generated and the offending process is suspended. The utility also will trust binaries signed by Apple and will not detect infections via injections into a signed binary. Wardle has published full technical details of how the utility detects ransomware and handles running processes. In the meantime, Wardle said he isnu2019t done. Future iterations of RansomWhere? would ideally monitor all files on an OS X machine, not just user directories. Heu2019d also like to push detection into the kernel and afford more protection at that level. u201cThis is the first tool where timing is paramount,u201d Wardle said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658556cefc42b00293ac1" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "PowerWare Ransomware Masquerades as Locky to Intimidate Victims", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ransomware-powerware-masquerades-as-locky-to-intimidate-victims/119437/", "Date" : "July 22, 2016 , 1:47 pm", "Article" : "A new variant of the PowerWare ransomware is stealing street creds fromu00a0the Locky strain of ransomware in an attempt to spoof the malware family. A new sample ofu00a0PowerWareu00a0found by Palo Alto Networksu2019 Unit 42 reveals the ransomwareu2019s quickly evolving tactics. According to researchers, a new version of the ransomwareu00a0is using Lockyu2019s u201c.lockyu201d file extension to encrypt files and make it appear the files have been infected with Locky. The ransomware has also adopted Lockyu2019s ransom note and uses the sameu00a0wording as Locky in the ransomwareu2019s u201chelpu201d instructions. These attempts to mimic the far more mature and sophisticated Locky ransomware is an attempt by PowerWare authors to trick victims into thinking they are dealing with Locky, versus the immature PowerWare ransomware that can be defeated. Compared to Locky, PowerWare uses static hard-coded encryption keys for decryption and packs a far weaker psychological punch to victims, because it is new and unknown. u201cIf some is infected with Locky the only way to get your files back is by paying the ransom. But PowerWare is relatively lame compared to Locky,u201d said Ryan Olson, intelligence director for Unit 42, Palo Alto Networks. For example, PowerWare uses AES-128 encryption and only encrypts the first 2048 bytes of the targeted files. The research teamu00a0has written a Python script that can extract the static key from PowerWare ransomware and decrypt infected files.  u201cThis is not the first time PowerWare has imitated other malware families, as earlier versions have been known to use the CryptoWall ransom note. Other instances of ransomware have also been known to borrow code from others, such as the TeslaCrypt ransomware family,u201d wrote co-authors of the research note,u00a0Tyler Halfpop and Jacob Soo. PowerWare is a unique ransomware that is primarily distributed via macro-enabled Microsoft Word documents. Its hallmark is cloaking its activities by using the Windows PowerShell utility and to blend in with legitimate activity on a computer. PowerWare is a variant of the ransomware PoshCoder, which has been encrypting files since 2014. As with PoshCoder, PowerWare victims become infected with the PowerWareu00a0 ransomware if they are tricked into enabling macros on malicious Word Documents. Once enabled, the macro opens cmd.exe, which then calls PowerShell to download a malicious script.u00a0The macros are there to launch PowerShell and pull down the ransomware script. PowerWare then uses PowerShell to ultimately encrypt files stored on the machine once itu2019s compromised. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36586d6cefc42b00293ad7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "NemucodAES Ransomware, Kovter Click-Fraud Malware Spreading in Same Campaigns", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/nemucodaes-ransomware-kovter-click-fraud-malware-spreading-in-same-campaigns/126844/", "Date" : "July 14, 2017 , 12:37 pm", "Article" : "Two malware families, NemucodAES and Kovter, are being packaged together in .zip attachments and delivered via active spam campaigns. Researcher Brad Duncan said, u201ctogether these two pieces of malware could deliver a nasty punch.u201d Duncan, a handler at the SANS Institute Internet Storm Center, said that during the past two weeks he has noticed a significant increase in malicious spam delivering .zip archives with JavaScript files designed to download and install NemucodAES ransomware and Kovter click-fraud malware on a victimu2019s Windows PC. NemucodAES is a variant of the Nemucod Trojan downloader, best known for being used in a wave of 2016 campaigns distributing Locky and TeslaCrypt ransomware. u201cBy March 2016, we started seeing reports of u2018Nemucod ransomwareu2019 that stopped downloading ransomware binaries in favor of using its own script-based ransomware component,u201d Duncan wrote in a SANS Institute Internet Storm Center posted Friday. That variant is now being called NemucodAES. Since being identified, a decryptor exists to neutralize the ransomware threat. Kovter click-fraud is malware known for being tricky to detect and hard to remove because of its fileless design after infection, according to Microsoft. Not only can it perpetrate click-fraud, but can also steal personal information, download additional malware, or give a hacker access to your PC. Spam campaigns deliver the malicious .zip archives disguised as notices from the United Parcel Service. Attacks were first reported last month by U.K. security firm My Online Security and have been consistent since then, Duncan said. u201cMalspam with Zip archives containing JavaScript files are easy for most organizations to detectu2026 But some of these messages might slip past your filtering, and some people could possibly get infected.u00a0 With the NemucodAES decryptor, people can recover their files, but I expect this ransomware will continue to evolve,u201d Duncan wrote. This is not the first time Kovter has been bundled with ransomware. In February, researchers at Microsoftu2019s Malware Protection Center spotted malicious email campaigns using .lnk attachments to spread Locky ransomware and Kovter. An .lnk file is a shortcut that points to an executable file. In this most recent NemucodAES and Kovter campaign, when malicious .zip archives are unpacked, a JavaScript file is extracted. u201cNetwork traffic was typical for an infection by one of the .js files.u00a0 We first see HTTP requests for the NemucodAES JavaScript, followed by requests for various executables.u00a0 Then we see the post-infection Kovter traffic.u00a0 NemucodAES doesnu2019t generate any traffic on its own,u201d according the research report. Files encrypted by NemucodAES retain their original file names. Delivered to the victimu2019s PC in their u201cAppDataLocalTempu201d directory are the NemucodAES decryption instructions (via an .hta file) and the Windows desktop backgroundu00a0(a .bmp file) used for the ransomware note. According that message, attackers are asking for approximately $1,500 in Bitcoin and are using an encryption that combines the RSA-2048 and AES-128 algorithms.  As for the Kovter component of the attack, Duncan said itu2019s unclear what its purpose is for now. u201cI see a lot of post-infection events for Kovter command and control traffic. But Iu2019m not certain click-fraud is involved any more,u201d he said. Kovter actions appear limited to checking traffic and generating command-and-control traffic, but not typical click-fraud traffic associated with the malware. Some of the domains used in the JavaScript files include: it.support4u[.]pl, anahata2011[.]ru, shiashop[.]com and ionios-sa[.]gr. Kovter post-infection encrypted traffic includes various IPs over port 80, 443 and 8080 and include: 24[.]96[.]108[.]157, 61[.]134[.]39[.]188 and 135[.]175[.]22[.]211. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658796cefc42b00293ae5" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Locky Variant Changes C2 Communication, Found in Nuclear EK", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/locky-variant-changes-c2-communication-found-in-nuclear-ek/117196/", "Date" : "April 5, 2016 , 2:09 pm", "Article" : "Security experts warn companies need to brace for new harder-to-detect and more determined variants of the Locky ransomware spotted recently in the wild. The news comes just as reported Locky ransomware attacks have waned in recent weeks. Locky is now trying to evade detection by changing the way the ransomware communicates from an infected computer to a remote server that downloads the actual Locky ransomware, according to Check Point Software Technologies, based in San Carlos, Calif. Check Point said it has also detected Locky ransomware delivered via the Nuclear Exploit Kit for the first time. u201cThis shows a maturing of Locky from its primary means of distribution (spam) to one that enlists the help of black market exploit kit vendors,u201d said researcher Maya Horowitz, group manager of Check Pointu2019s Intelligence Operations Groups. u00a0 She said that Locky is slowly following the lead of top ransomware variants CryptoWall and TeslaCrypt that are spread evenly byu00a0spam and exploit kits. Locky, is still primarily spread via spam, Horowitz said. Check Point has observed at least two recent changes in the way Locky communicates between an infected computer and the command and control server that delivers the Locky payload. Horowitz said itu2019s vitally important to understand those changes in order to thwart attacks. The changes are not dramatic, she said. Rather attackers have simply changed the order of the command requests from the infected computer u2013 just enough u2013 to fool security scans looking for the Locky ransomware communication. Those technical changes are outlined in a Check Point research brief posted Monday. u201cThe communication has yet again changed,u201d wrote Check Point. u201cIn the midst of our ongoing research of exploit kits (EK), we encountered a second change in the Locky variant delivered by the Nuclear EK. This time the changes were more drastic, both in the downloader dropped by the EK, and in the C&C key exchange protocol.u201d According Check Point, Locky has been potent since its initial detection on Feb. 16u00a0u2013 with attemptsu00a0to infect customers logged in more thanu00a0100 countries. The preferred Locky attack vector has been email messages that contain an attached Word document embedded with a malicious macro. Once the macro is engaged, a script is initiated and Locky is downloaded onto a victimu2019s PC. Check Pointu2019s latest research hopes to alert the security community to the new way Locky is communicating outside of the infected computer before the Locky ransomware is downloaded to the system. Since its detection in February, Check Point researchers have documented at least 10 different Locky downloader variants. In those cases, each variant has tried to avoid detection by hiding the Locky payload in different file types (.doc, .docm, .xls and also .js) that claim mostly to be invoice attachments. Locky, according to Check Point, is not a particularly unique ransomware. Instead, Lockyu2019s deadly success is attributed to effective spam campaigns. Security firm Trustwave, in a March 10 report, said it was tracking a massive spam attack that included the Locky ransomware. At the time, Trustwave reported, malware-laced spam tied to Locky had represented 18 percent of total spam collected in its honeypots during a seven-day campaign. Trustwave said malware-infected spam typically represent less than 2 percent of total spam. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36588a6cefc42b00293b03" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CrySis Ransomware Master Decryption Keys Released", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/crysis-ransomware-master-decryption-keys-released/121942/", "Date" : "November 14, 2016 , 2:20 pm", "Article" : "The threat posed by a ransomware family known as CrySis was diminished considerably on Sunday when the master decryption keys were released to the public. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab said they have already folded the keys into the companyu2019s Rakhni decryptor and victims of CrySis versions 2 and 3 now have a means of recovering their lost files. The key was posted at 1 a.m. Eastern time to the BleepingComputer.com forums by a user known only as crss7777, said founder Lawrence Abrams. Abrams speculates that it could have been the ransomware developer who posted the key on the siteu2019s CrySis support forum page; the post included a Pastebin link to a header file written in C that contains the master decryption keys and instructions on how to use them. u201cThough the identity of crss7777 is not currently known, the intimate knowledge they have regarding the structure of the master decryption keys and the fact that they released the keys as a C header file indicates that they may be one of the developers of the CrySiS ransomware,u201d Abrams said. u201cWhy the keys were released is also unknown, but it may be due to the increasing pressure by law enforcement on ransomware infections and the developers behind them.u201d CrySis surfaced in February after a report by researchers at Eset said the ransomware was quickly gaining favor from hackers after the decryption of TeslaCrypt ransomware. CrySis spread via email attachments with double file extensions or through links in spam messages. It was also found lurking in Trojanized versions of freely available software such as compression programs like WinRAR. Like most ransomware, it could encrypt a large number of file types and sought to encrypt data stored on shared drives. Documents encrypted by CrySis have their filenames changed to include a .xtbl extension and an email address, similar to [filename].id-[id].[email_address].xtbl, BleepingComputer said. Kaspersky researchers said CrySis accounted for 1.15 percent of ransomware infections this year, with most of the victims found in Russia, Japan, South and North Korea, and Brazil. A number of virulent ransomware families have been extinguished this year, including CryptXXX, TeslaCrypt, Chimera, Jigsaw and others. Ransomware has been among the most feared malware threats of the year; attacks have taken large organizations in a number of industries offline and have impacted customer service. A number of high-profile attacks against hospitals and utilities put ransomware on the map as patient care was impacted in a couple of attacks as organizations wrestled with the question of whether to pay the attackersu2019 demands. In the meantime, the FBI put out a number of warnings about ransomware, urging businesses to be vigilant about patching software that could be targeted by exploit kits spreading the malware, or about email campaigns spreading these infections. u201cThe inability to access the important data these kinds of organizations keep can be catastrophic in terms of the loss of sensitive or proprietary information, the disruption to regular operations, financial losses incurred to restore systems and files, and the potential harm to an organizationu2019s reputation,u201d the FBI said in May. In September, the FBI made a public plea to organizations that have been ransomware victims to share incident reports, looking for details on how the infection happened, any losses incurred, the attackersu2019 Bitcoin wallet address and more. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658be6cefc42b00293b5c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Massive Malvertising Campaign Lands On Top Websites", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/massive-malvertising-campaign-lands-on-top-websites/116806/", "Date" : "March 15, 2016 , 5:15 pm", "Article" : "Big-name websites were hit with a cunning malvertising campaign over the weekend that attempted to sneak TeslaCrypt ransomware on computers vulnerable to the potent Angler Exploit Kit. Top sites running the malicious ads included The New York Times owned NYTimes.com, Answers.com and AOL.com, according three separate security firms that spotted a spike in malvertising over the weekend. According to researchers at Trustwave, thousands of sites were impacted by the malicious advertisements and link to a webpage that contained Angler EK, which probes browsers for vulnerabilities and attempts to installs malware. For anyone with a vulnerable browser, attackers installed either TeslaCrypt ransomware or the Bedep Trojan, which opens a backdoor on PCs so attackers can install a variety of malicious programs. Malvertising campaigns were also confirmedu00a0by TrendMicro and Malwarebytes but itu2019s unclear if the three malicious ad campaigns are linked. Karl Sigler, threat intelligence manager at Trustwave, told Threatpost that attackersu00a0behind the malware use a sophisticated scheme to trick ad networks to run their malicious ads. The scheme included acquiring the domains of recently expired web addresses previously owned by marketing and advertising firms. u201cAd networks vet the companies that run ads on their networks,u201d Sigler said. u201cThose behind this malvertising campaign went to great lengths to appear legitimate,u201d he said. The two ad networks that distributed the ads were identified as Adnxs and Taggify. Adnxs immediately removed the ads from its network and Taggify didnu2019t reply to Trustwave when alerted, Sigler said. One of expired domain used by attackers was brentsmedia[.]com, which according to Trustwave, was previously owned by BrentsMedia, a now shuttered online marketing company. Other domains used were envangmedia[.]com and markets.shangjiamedia[.]com, which both were previously owned by media companies. According to Trustwaveu2019s report on the malicious ads, it identified one of the rogue advertisements when it noticed several high profile sites that were fetching a suspicious JSON files hosted on u201cbrentsmedia[.]com. It turns out the JSON file, or JavaScript Object Notation, requested a JavaScript file with 12,000 lines of code. Thatu2019s about 11,000 more lines of code than a typical JavaScript file would contain, Sigler said. u201cOur suspicions grew further when de-obfuscation of the script revealed that it tries to enumerate the following list of security products and tools in order to filter out security researchers and users with protections that would prevent exploitation,u201d wrote the authors of the Trustwave research report, Daniel Chechik, Simon Kenin and Rami Kogan. TrendMicro estimates this wave of malware may have u201caffected tens of thousands of users in the last 24 hours alone.u201d u201cWhether or not this will turn into a new trend, itu2019s certainly an interesting development in the world of malvertising, once again reminding us how difficult it is for both end-users and ad networks to deal with this threat,u201d wrote Trustwave researchers. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658e36cefc42b00293b9b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Angler Exploit Kit Learns New Tricks, Finds Home On Popular Website", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/angler-exploit-kit-learns-new-tricks-finds-home-on-popular-website/116509/", "Date" : "February 26, 2016 , 2:26 pm", "Article" : "Researchers report Angler Exploit Kit attacks have become more brazen and are now targeting top websites with new tricks that can evade browser-based antimalware protection. Karl Sigler, a SpiderLabs researcher at Trustwave, told Threatpost his lab found the Angler Exploit Kit on a popular website for the second time in a week, exposing just under million visitors monthly to possible TeslaCrypt ransomware infections. Sigler said Trustwave researchers spotted the exploit on Extendoffice[.]com, a site that sells software for customizing Microsoft Office software applications. A number of things stuck out as unique about this iteration of Angler Exploit Kit, according to Trustwave. One was the fact that attackers were targeting a destination site as opposed to a random webpage that had traffic driven to it via phishing attacks, Sigler said. According to site analysis tool Compete.com, Extendoffice attracted 963,000 unique visitors in January. u201cThat many not seem like a lot of traffic for a website, but for a watering-hole attack, they hit the jackpot,u201d Sigler said. The site Extendoffice appears to be owned by China-based Addin Technology and did not reply to Threatpostu2019s requests for comment. Sigler said, Trustwave also notified the siteu2019s owner and its hosting company, alerting both to the vulnerability last week. He said the site was still attempting to distribute the Angler Exploit Kit as of Thursday. He said Trustwave received an email Friday fromu00a0the siteu2019s domain hosting firm claiming the vulnerability has been patched. Trustwave said it hasnu2019t verified that claim yet. An outdated version of the content management system Joomla (version 3.4.3) was likely to blame for the vulnerability. Sigler saidu00a0that in Decemberu00a0Joomla released version 3.4.6 of its software that plugged a known object injection remote command execution vulnerability in the version 3.4.3. Threatpost reported last week the SANS Instituteu2019s Internet Storm Center has noticed that exploit kits are now targeting Joomla sites. u201cItu2019s an unfortunate case where a fairly popular website was redirecting its visitors to the Angler Exploit Kit,u201d Sigler said. If successful, attackers dropped the TeslaCrypt ransomware on the victim machine, he said. Another interesting aspect of this version of Angler was the way the kitu00a0was being distributed and its ability to avoid detection by browsers such as Firefox that use the JavaScript engine SpiderMonkey. SpiderMonkey has the capability to detect and report instances of malware. Sigler explains that because Angler exclusively targets Microsoftu2019s Internet Explorer web browsers, the attackers didnu2019t want to risk being discovered or lose any u201cvaluableu201d traffic to Firefox or Googleu2019s Chrome browser traffic. u201cWe found some interesting tricks in the (JavaScript) deobfuscated code which were likely used in order to deceive and bypass security scanning engines,u201d wrote Rami Kogan in Trustwave blog outlining the discovery. According Trustwave research, the attackers were able to inject JavaScript code onto the Extendoffice site that would be executed differently based on what browser a visitor was using. u201cRunning this line of code on IE returns the number 0 (zero) which is later used as a counter in a deobfuscation loop. Running the same line of code on Firerfox, however, returns NaN (Not a Number)- which basically breaks the flow of the code,u201d Kogan wrote. Using this method attackers managed to execute a string of code and bypass the JavaScript evaluation (eval) step, according to Kogan. This method of obfuscation is so effective, Sigler said, that it is able to sneak past most of the 67 private scanning engines behind Googleu2019s VirusTotal, a free service that analyzes URLs red flags malicious content detected by antivirus engines and website scanners. February has been a busy month for the Angler Exploit Kit. Along with targeting small sites such as Extendoffice this month, the exploit also targeted Skype users via malicious ads and is now targeting vulnerabilities in Microsoftu2019s Silverlight. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658f66cefc42b00293bba" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Silverlight Attacks Appear in Angler Exploit Kit", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-silverlight-attacks-appear-in-angler-exploit-kit/116409/", "Date" : "February 23, 2016 , 8:45 am", "Article" : "Exploits for a vulnerability in Microsoft Silverlight have found their way into the dangerous Angler Exploit Kit a little more than a month after it was patched. French security researcher Kafeine said he was able to get independent confirmation from researchers at Kaspersky Lab that the exploit targeted CVE-2016-0034, which was fixed by Microsoft in bulletin MS16-006 that was part of Januaryu2019s Patch Tuesday release. The quick turnaround was anticipated not only by Kafeine, but also by Kaspersky researchersu00a0who disclosed the bug to Microsoft and shortly after the bug was patched, said they had discovered it being used in limited targeted attacks, and warned it would not be long before attacks went mainstream. u201cItu2019s a big deal; Silverlight vulnerabilities donu2019tu2019 come around that often,u201d said Kaspersky Lab researcher Brian Bartholomew. u201cExploitation of the zero day itself is fairly technical, but once a proof-of-concept falls into the hands of someone who knows what theyu2019re doing and reverse engineers the patch, itu2019s not that difficult to produce a weaponized version of it.u201d Kafeine shared a timeline related to the Angler integration of the Silverlight attacks, starting last Thursdayu00a0with the inclusion of a code snippet that resulted in a new call if Silverlight was indeed installed on the compromised computer. By yesterday, the calls in question were dropping TeslaCrypt ransomware in attacks.  Silverlight vulnerabilities and exploits are not as prevalent as similar attacks involving Adobe Flash Player, but are still coveted by attackers. u201cThere is an interest in all that is reasonably widely used, exploitable and allows [remote code execution] after driveby,u201d Kafeine said. According to Microsoft, the vulnerability opens the door to remote code execution and affects Microsoft Silverlight 5 and Microsoft Silverlight 5 Developer Runtime; later builds after 5.1.41212.0 are not affected. Exploit kitsu2014Angler being among the most actively updated and widely usedu2014infect websites in a variety of manners. Users landing on these sites running vulnerable web browsers, usually Internet Explorer, are infected and served iframes that redirect to attacker-controlled sites where additional malwareu2014in this case, ransomwareu2014is dropped. The Silverligtht vulnerability serves to give an attacker an initial foothold on a compromised machine. From there, additional payloads are served to the infected computer and can lead to the loss of sensitive data or further network infiltration. This particular bug has an interesting back story that Kaspersky Labu2019s Global Research and Analysis Team shared in January. Kasperskyu2019s Costin Raiu and Anton Ivanov found the bug after investigating data exposed in this summeru2019s Hacking Team breach. Prompted by an email from a Russian hacker named Vitaliy Toropov to Hacking Team that was published in July by Ars Technica, the researchers decided to pursue Toropovu2019s claims that he had a Silverlight zero day for sale that was at least two years old in 2013 and which he said could survive for a few more years without detection. The researchers found an older Silverlight exploit submitted to Packet Storm by Toropov, wrote a YARA rule for it that was deployed to Kaspersky customers. That rule was not triggered until November by an exploit compiled shortly after the Hacking Team breach went public. Kaspersky researchers were unsure whether this exploit was the same one uncovered in the Hacking Team data or a new one written after the leak. Kasperskyu2019s Bartholomew said there are commonalities in both samples that are unique to Toropov. u201cNot many people write Silverlight zero days, so the field is narrowed significantly,u201d Bartholomew said. u201cOn top of that, there are some error strings used in his old exploit from 2013 that we latched on to and thought were unique. These were the basis of our rule. u201cThis exploit contains the same error strings a .NET application ID that is the same as the old one. Every time you build new app in .NET, you get a new ID. This has the old one. All of this adds to the pile of indicators that point to him.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659016cefc42b00293bcf" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Joomla Sites Join WordPress As TeslaCrypt Ransomware Target", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/joomla-sites-join-wordpress-as-teslacrypt-ransomware-target/116362/", "Date" : "February 19, 2016 , 4:35 pm", "Article" : "Exploit kits infecting thousands of WordPress websites areu00a0setting their sights on the open-source content management system Joomla in a new campaign spotted by a researcher at the SANS Instituteu2019s Internet Storm Center. u201cThe group behind the WordPress u2018admediau2019 campaign is now apparently targeting Joomla sites,u201d said Brad Duncan, security researcher at Rackspace. u201cWe are starting to see the same traffic characteristics in infections that are associated with Joomla sites u2013 as we did with the WordPress campaign,u201d Duncan said. On Feb. 1, the security firm Sucuri first reported that attackers were targeting WordPress websites by injecting them with JavaScript files that contained malicious code. The code then loads iframes and shows advertisements on WordPress sites along with creating backdoors on the vulnerable web servers and constantly re-infecting other WordPress sites. Researchers at Heimdal Security reported visitors to those compromised WordPress sites are redirected to malicious websites that contained the Nuclear Exploit Kit, a collection of exploits targeting Adobe products (Flash, Reader, Acrobat), Internet Explorer and Microsoft Silverlight. Since then, Attacks have shifted, whereas now they are delivering the Angler Exploit Kit, according to research by Malwarebytes. u201cExploit kit traffic associated with this campaign has generally sent TeslaCrypt ransomware,u201d wrote Duncan, who posted his finding on Thursday to ISC site. Teslacrypt, like other versions of crypto-ransomware, encrypts files stored on the local hard drive and demands a ransom in exchange the encryption key. On Friday, Sucuri confirmed to Threatpost itu2019s also seeing the malware affecting Joomla sites. u201cAlthough the number of infected Joomla sites is smaller by an order of magnitude (so is the market share of Joomla). And in some cases the infected Joomla sites shared the same hosting accounts with WordPress sites,u201d said Denis Sinegubko, a researcher at Sucuri who first identified the WordPress compromise, in an email. Linking WordPress Attacks To Joomla  Duncan said the same group is behind both the Angler and Nuclear attacks. In his research, Duncan examined the long string of hexadecimal code that wasu00a0part of the exploitu2019s injected script in the .js files. u201cTranslate that string from hex to ASCII, and youu2019ll find a URL for the admedia gate,u201d he wrote. Duncan explains: u201cAdmedia was a common string used in malicious URLs associated with the rogue WordPress iframes. u201cBecause of that, some people use the term u2018admediau2019 when referring to traffic generated by this campaign. These u2018admediau2019 URLs act as a gate between the compromised website and the EK server,u201d Duncan wrote. On Wednesday, Duncan documented an Angler EK infection related to this u201cadmediau201d campaign on a compromised Joomla site. u201cI got a full chain of events. The chain started with a compromised website that generated an u2018admediau2019 gate. The gate led to Angler EK. Finally, Angler EK delivered TeslaCrypt, and we saw some callback traffic from the malware.u201d Sucuriu2019s Sinegubko believes that the attackers scans for multiple vulnerabilities on WordPress, Joomla and Drupal sites and infect those it can. u201cSince most versions of the malware donu2019t depend on any particular CMS (they just infect .js files that can be found in any CMS) they use the vulnerability to break into the server, upload a backdoor and the make it find and infect all .js files,u201d Sinegubko said. According to Sucuri, the peak of WordPress infections (in terms of sites cleaned) was about nine days ago. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659216cefc42b00293c0c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "WordPress Infections Leading to TeslaCrypt Ransomware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/wordpress-infections-leading-to-teslacrypt-ransomware/116149/", "Date" : "February 5, 2016 , 7:00 am", "Article" : "Website operators running sites on the WordPress platform need to be aware of a massive string of infections that as of Thursday were poorly detected by security products. Researchers at Heimdal Security said the compromised sites redirect victims to other domains hosting the Nuclear Exploit Kit, a potent collection of exploits for vulnerable Adobe products (Flash, Reader, Acrobat), Internet Explorer and Microsoft Silverlight, that has in the past, and in this case, been dropping ransomware on infected computers. Other versions of Nuclear EK have been dropping the dangerous Cryptowall ransonmware, as recently as late November. This campaign, Heimdal researchers said, infects computers with Teslacrypt. Teslacrypt, like other versions of crypto-ransomware, encrypts files stored on the local hard drive and demands a ransom in exchange the encryption key. Researchers at FireEye estimated that the ransomware made more than $76,000 in a three-month span early last year, a paltry sum compared to the millions hauled in by Cryptolocker and other ransomware families. FireEye researched some of the early Teslacrypt victims, many of whom had no idea what happened to their machines and were concerned about their job security and financial well-being as a consequence of the infections. In July, a new version of Teslacrypt came with a fresh encryption scheme and other feature that mimicked Cryptowall. Heimdal researchers said the attackers behind the current WordPress compromisesu2014numbering in the hundredsu2014were exploiting an unidentified vulnerability with obfuscated JavaScript. The malicious code redirects traffic to a domain called chrenovuihren, where the users are presented an online ad that forces traffic to the site hosting Nuclear. Heimdal identified three IP addresses acting as Nuclear EK gateways: 159[.]203[.]24 [.] 40; 164[.]132[.]80 [.] 71; andn162[.]243[.]77 [.] 214. u201cThe campaign makes use of several domains to deliver the malicious code, which is whyu00a0active servers can quickly change depending on which IP as DNS lookup they use,u201d Heimdal researchers wrote in a blog post. The malicious domains are subdomains of the chrenovuihren domain, Heimdal said, adding that it has already blocked more than 85 domains. Two of 66 security products on VirusTotal detect the threat as of last night. Heimdalu2019s findings come less than a week after security company Sucuri announced it had uncovered a similarly large campaign. Heimdal said in its report that it believes the same group is behind both attacks, but cannot confirm that fact. Sucuri said the infections it saw were characterized by encrypted malicious code appended to the end of all legitimate JavaScript files. These infections hit only first-time visitors to the compromised sites and sets a cookie that expires within 24 hours and injects and invisible iFrame with u201cAdmediau201d or u201cadvertisingu201d in the path part of the URL, Sucuri said. In the meantime, Heimdal researchers urge WordPress operators to update the content management system as soon as possibleu2014an update was released this weeku2014and back up their file systems regularly. Regular backups to multiple locations are the best defense against ransomware, along with updated detections for known ransomware. " }n"
%%%Proton2016——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bd0a6cefc42b0029349c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "THN Weekly Roundup u2014 Top 10 Stories You Should Not Miss", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/12/cybersecurity-hacking-news.html", "Date" : "2017-12-10T22:45:00-11:00", "Article" : "Here we are with our weekly roundup, briefing this week's top cybersecurity threats, incidents, and challenges, just in case you missed any of them. Last week has been very short with big news from the theft of over 4,700 Bitcoins from the largest cryptocurrency mining marketplace to the discovery of a new malware evasion technique that works on all versions of Microsoft's Windows operating system. Besides this, the newly discovered Janus vulnerability in the Android operating system and a critical remote code execution (RCE) vulnerability in Malware Protection Engine (MPE) for which Microsoft released an emergency patch made their places in our weekly roundup. I recommend you to read the entire news (just click 'Read More' because there's some valuable advice in there as well). So, here we go with the list of this Week's Top Stories: Process Doppelgu00e4nging: New Malware Evasion Technique A team of researchers, who previously discovered AtomBombing attack, recently revealed a new fileless code injection technique that could help malware authors defeat most of the modern anti-virus solutions and forensic tools. Dubbed Process Doppelgu00e4nging, the method takes advantage of a built-in Windows function and an undocumented implementation of Windows process loader, and works on all versions of Microsoft Windows operating system, starting from Windows Vista to the latest version of Windows 10. To know How Process Doppelgu00e4nging attack works and why Microsoft refused to fix it, Read More. Android Flaw Lets Hackers Inject Malware Into Apps Without Altering Signatures A newly discovered vulnerability, dubbed Janus, in Android could let attackers modify the code of Android apps without affecting their signatures, eventually allowing them to distribute malicious update for the legitimate apps, which looks and works same as the original apps. Although Google has patched the vulnerability this month, a majority of Android users would still need to wait for their device manufacturers to release custom updates for them, apparently leaving a large number of Android users vulnerable to hackers for next few months. To know more about the vulnerability, how it works and if you are affected, Read More. Pre-Installed Keylogger Found On Over 460 HP Laptop Models Once again, Hewlett-Packard (HP) was caught pre-installing a keylogger in more than 460 HP Notebook laptop models that could allow hackers to record your every keystroke and steal sensitive data, including passwords, account information, and credit card details. When reported last month, HP acknowledged the presence of the keylogger, saying it was actually "a debug trace" which was left accidentally, and affected users can install updated Synaptics touchpad driver to remove it manually. To know how to check if your HP laptop is vulnerable to this issue and download compatible drivers, Read More. New Email Spoofing Flaw Affects Over 30 Popular Email Clients Researchers discovered a collection of vulnerabilities in more than 30 popular email client applications that could allow anyone to send spoofed emails bypassing anti-spoofing mechanisms. Dubbed MailSploit, the vulnerabilities affect popular email clients including Apple Mail (for macOS, iOS, and watchOS), Mozilla Thunderbird, Yahoo Mail, ProtonMail, several Microsoft email clients, and others. To watch the PoC video released by the researchers and know more about the vulnerabilities, Read More. Largest Crypto-Mining Exchange Hacked; Over $80 Million in Bitcoin Stolen Last week was the golden week in Bitcoin's history when the price of 1 BTC touched almost $19,000, but the media hype about the bitcoin price diminishes the hack of the largest Bitcoin mining marketplace. NiceHash mining marketplace confirmed a breach of its website, which resulted in the theft of more than 4,736 Bitcoins, which now worth nearly $80 million. The service went offline (and is still offline at the time of writing this article) with a post on its website, confirming that "there has been a security breach involving NiceHash website," and that hackers stole the contents of the NiceHash Bitcoin wallet. To know more about the Bitcoin hack, Read More. Microsoft Issues Emergency Windows Security Update A week before its December Patch Tuesday updates, Microsoft released an emergency security patch to address a critical remote code execution vulnerability in its Malware Protection Engine (MPE) that could allow an attacker to take full control of a victim's PC. The vulnerability (CVE-2017-11937) impacts Windows 10, Windows 8.1, Windows 7, Windows RT 8.1, and Windows Server, and affects several Microsoft's security products, including Windows Defender, Microsoft Security Essentials, Endpoint Protection, Forefront Endpoint Protection, and Exchange Server 2013 and 2016. To know more about the vulnerability, Read More. Security Flaw Left Major Banking Apps Vulnerable to MiTM Attacks Over SSL Scientists discovered a critical implementation flaw in major mobile banking appsu2014for both iOS and Androidu2014that left banking credentials of millions of users vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. Attackers, connected to the same network as the victim, could have leveraged vulnerable banking apps to intercept SSL connection and retrieve the user's banking credentials, like usernames and passwords/pincodesu2014even if the apps are using SSL pinning feature. To know how attackers could have exploited this vulnerability to take over your bank accounts, Read More. Massive Data Breach Exposes Personal Data On 31 Million Users While downloading apps on their smartphones, most users may not realize how much data they collect on them, and app developers take advantage of this ignorance, wiping off more data on their users than they actually require for the working of their app. But what if this data falls into the wrong hand? The same happened last week, when a massive trove of personal data (over 577 GB) belonging to more than 31 million users of the famous virtual keyboard app, called AI.type, leaked online for anyone to download without requiring a password. To know more about the data breach incident and what information users lost, Read More. Critical Flaw in Major Android Tools Targets Developers An easily-exploitable vulnerability discovered in Android application developer tools, both downloadable and cloud-based, could allow hackers to steal files and execute malicious code on vulnerable systems remotely. The vulnerability was discovered by security researchers at CheckPoint, who also released a proof of concept (PoC) attack, dubbed ParseDroid, along with a video to demonstrate how the attack works. To watch the video and know how this vulnerability can be exploited, Read More. Uber Paid Florida Hacker $100,000 to Keep Data Breach News Secret It turns out that a 20-year-old Florida man, with the help of another, was responsible for the massive Uber data breach in October 2016 and was paid an enormous amount by the ride-hailing company to destroy the data and keep the data breach incident secret. Last week, Uber announced that a massive data breach last year exposed personal data of 57 million customers and drivers and that it paid two hackers $100,000 in ransom to destroy the information. To know more about the data breach at Uber and the hackers, Read More." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657696cefc42b0029394f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Free Mac-Based Ransomware-as-a-Service MacRansom Surfaces", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/free-mac-based-ransomware-as-a-service-macransom-surfaces/126204/", "Date" : "June 12, 2017 , 4:19 pm", "Article" : "Researchers on Friday began warning of MacRansom, a new and free macOS-based ransomware as a service (RaaS) thatu2019s been making the rounds over the past several weeks. It leverages a portal hosted on the Tor network, but attackers looking for the malware wonu2019t find it there. Interested parties need to contact the ransomwareu2019s creators directly, via a secure ProtonMail email address, to build the ransomware. Rommel Joven and Wayne Chin Low, two researchers with Fortinetu2019s FortiGuard Lion Team, did just that and described what they found inu00a0a blog entry Friday. What the researchers received back was an email from security researchers, purportedly former engineers at Yahoo and Facebook, who said they had a knack for creating Mac malware. u201cWe believed people were in need of such programs on macOS, so we made these tools available for free. Unlike most hackers on the darknet, we are professional developers with extensive experience in software development and vast interest in surveillance,u201d the email reads, u201cYou can depend on our software as billions of users world-wide rely on our clearnet products.u201d The researchers went back and forth with the creators on details such as the Bitcoin amount a target would pay, the Bitcoin address, when the ransomware could be triggered, and if it could be executed via USB. According to Joven and Chin Yick Low, who eventually received a .zip file of the ransomware and carried out an analysis, a prompt pops up informing the user the program is from an unidentified developer. Clicking open in this instance allows the ransomware to run. As long as users donu2019t open it u2013 or any files from unknown developers, theyu2019d seemingly be safe, they write. Once the malware is initiated, the researchers claim it determines whether itu2019s being run in a non-Mac environment or if its being debugged. If itu2019s not, the ransomware uses symmetric encryption with a hardcoded key to encrypt victimsu2019 files, and stops after it has encrypted 128 files. Below is the ransomwareu2019s file path denoted by %:  The ransomware asks the victim for a quarter (.25 BTC) Bitcoin, roughly $700, and tells them to contact another ProtonMail address, getwindows@protonmail.com, to decrypt their files but researchers say itu2019s unclear if thatu2019s even possible. Because of the algorithm the malware uses, the researchers say theyu2019re skeptical that files infected by the ransomware can be decrypted. After reverse engineering its encryption/decryption algorithm, Joven and Chin Yick Low noticed that TargetFileKey u2013 something that would be key to decrypting files u2013 is permuted with a random generated number. u201cIn other words, the encrypted files can no longer be decrypted once the malware has terminated u2013 the TargetFileKey will be freed from programu2019s memory and hence it becomes more challenging to create a decryptor or recovery tool to restore the encrypted files,u201d the researchers wrote, u201cMoreover, it doesnu2019t have any function to communicate with any C&C server for the TargetFileKey meaning there is no readily available copy of the key to decrypt the files.u201d It may not be completely impossible, Joven and Yick Low write, adding the decryption file could likely be brute-forced but this could be a less than ideal scenario. Noted Mac hacker and director of research at Synack Patrick Wardle, tore the covers off of MacRansom on Monday,u00a0calling it a u201crather lame piece of ransomware.u201d As Fortinet noted, Wardle points out that since the ransomware doesnu2019t use a RSA-based scheme, any hope of retrieving lost files is dashed as soon as the malware begins encrypting files. u201cOnce encrypted, the files are pretty much gone for good,u201d Wardle wrote. Wardle acknowledges the ransomware can be generically blocked on OS X/macOS via RansomWhere? a utility Wardle released last summer however. The tool monitors OS X machines for untrusted processes that are encrypting files and was partially spurred by KeRanger, another strain of Apple malware that was signed with a legitimate Apple developer ID certificate. Fortinetu2019s finding came on the same day researchers with AlienVault reported findingu00a0an OS X RAT as a service, MacSpy. MacSpy, also obtained via an email with the malwareu2019s author, appears to be modeled after MacRansom, at least in the sense that itu2019s hosted on a similar looking darkweb site and can be assembled to the specifications, see below, of an attackersu2019 choosing.  Like MacRansom, MacSpy has techniques that help prevent it from being debugged, or being run in a virtual machine. According to Peter Ewane, a researcher at AlienVault who penned the blog post, the malware forwards along data it collects to a command and control server, via POST requests through Tor. u201cThis process repeats again for the various data the malware has collected. After exfiltration of the data, the malware deletes the temporary files containing the data it sent,u201d Ewane wrote. Both discoveries come as malware continues to slowly bleed over to Mac setups. The risk around KeRanger, discovered last summer, was quickly mitigated. The malware spread in a Trojanized version of Transmission, a BitTorrent client, but was patched by the company; the certificate used to sign the ransomware meanwhile was revoked by Apple. Earlier this year however Fortinet reported spotting macro malware that targets both Microsoft and Apple operating systems. Synack reported seeing similar malware explicitly targeting Mac versions of Microsoft Word in February. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36577e6cefc42b0029396e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "BlackShades Ransomware Targets US, Russians, Teases Researchers", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/blackshades-ransomware-targets-us-russians-teases-researchers/118473/", "Date" : "June 3, 2016 , 4:44 pm", "Article" : "Researchers whou00a0dig deep through the code of one of the latestu00a0strains of ransomware might be surprised and even a little irked at what they find. Hidden inside some of those strings of code are taunts aimed at them. According to Lawrence Abrams who runs BleepingComputer.com, the malware, BlackShades Crypter a/k/a SilentShades was spotted late last month by a researcher that goes by the name Jack, targeting both users in the United States and Russia. The ransomware behaves like most variants and once a user is infected it goes ahead and encrypts usersu2019 files with an extension, in this case u201c.silent.u201d  The ransomware encrypts mostly everything it comes across, usersu2019 downloads, documents, pictures, music, and desktop folders, to name a few. u201cDuring different stages of the encryption process it will check again for the ability to connect to Google, and if possible, will connect to the Command & Control server and send an update that contains the count of files that have been encrypted,u201d Abrams wrote in a blog post about the ransomware Friday. After users have been hit, itu2019s actually fairly cheap to decrypt files, Abrams claims. Users will be instructed to visit a site and pony up as little as $30 in Bitcoin or PayPal to retrieve their documents, then email the attackers at a Proton Mail address. As Abrams points out, the fact that a cybercriminal would want to use PayPal at all is a perplexing move. u201cThe use of PayPal is an odd choice for any criminal activity as it can easily be traced,u201d Abrams writes. Perhaps as an Easter egg, those who look between the lines will find a few surprises nestled in the code of Black Shades however. Messages, most of which are base64 encoded, others which use basic string manipulation, contain hidden notes to researchers, taunting them. According to Abrams, some of the messages decode to things like u201cYoxcnnotcrackthisAlgorithmynare>idiot<u201d and u201cyouaresofartocrackme.u201d One string, after its decoded from Russian, reads: u201cyou can not hack me, I am very hard.u201d The source of BlackShades infections remains to be seen but according to Abramsu2019 post, researchers with MalwareHunterTeam believe the ransomware is primarily distributed via fake videos, fake cracks, or fake patches. The ransomware doesnu2019t appear to have anything in common, except its name, with Blackshades, a remote access Trojan that was previously soldu00a0on underground criminal forums for $40.u00a0A fewu00a0years ago attackers used the malware to pilfer data and spy on victims, namely Syrian dissidents. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36580a6cefc42b00293a4e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "HandBrake for Mac Compromised with Proton Spyware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/handbrake-for-mac-compromised-with-proton-spyware/125518/", "Date" : "May 8, 2017 , 1:55 pm", "Article" : "The handlers of the open source HandBrake video transcoder are warning anyone who recently downloaded the Mac version of the software that theyu2019re likely infected with malware. HandBrake warned users on Saturday of a compromise of one of its mirror download servers, and said anyone who grabbed the software between May 2 and May 6 could have also downloaded a variant of the OSX.PROTON Trojan onto their Mac system. u201cAnyone who has installed HandBrake for Mac needs to verify their system is not infected with a Trojan,u201d said an advisory. u201cYou have 50/50 chance if youu2019ve downloaded HandBrake during this period.u201d Apple, however, has since pushed out a XProtect signature preventing any new infections. HandBrake, meanwhile, advises its users to also change all passwords in their OSX KeyChain or passwords stored in their browsers. HandBrake is free software that is used to convert video from a variety of formats to a supported codec. There are Windows, Mac and Linux versions. The warning was for the Mac version. The handlers advise verifying the SHA1 or SHA256 sum of the file before running it. The bad SHA checksums are: u201cIf you see a process called u2018activity_agentu2019 in the OSX Activity Monitor application, you are infected,u201d the advisory said. Proton is a remote access Trojan, or RAT, sold in Russian underground forums. Researchers at Sixgill published an analysis of the Mac malware, which is used to spy on the victimu2019s activities; it can monitor keystrokes, upload files to remote machines, download files from the web, steal screenshots and connected directly via SSH or a remote admin tool such as VNC. u201cThe malware is shipped with genuine Apple code-signing signatures,u201d the Sixgill report said. u201cThis means the author of Proton RAT somehow got through the rigorous filtration process Apple places on MAC OS developers of third-party software, and obtained genuine certifications for his program.u201d The price, according to the researchers, is steep at around 100 Bitcoin ($163,600 today). Patrick Wardle, a Mac security expert, said on the Objective-See blog on Saturday that the Proton variant has zero coverage on VirusTotal by antimalware engines. Wardle said that when the infected HandBrake app runs, it asks via a phony authentication popup for the useru2019s credentials. u201cIf the user is tricked into providing a user name and password, the malware will install itself,u201d Wardle said, adding that the credentials allow the malware to elevate privileges. By compromising the HandBrake mirror, the attackers were able to follow the road map provided by the other Mac malware such as KeRanger, which infected the legitimate BitTorrent client Transmission, which was developed by the same author. The HandBrake team said it does not share infrastructure with Transmission. u201cThe HandBrake Team is independent of the Transmission Developers,u201d HandBrake said in its advisory. u201cThe projects share history in the sense that the same author created these apps but he is not part of the current HandBrake team of developers.u00a0We do not share our virtual machines with the Transmission project.u201d HandBrake also provided instructions for removing the Trojan from the Terminal application. u201cThe Download Mirror Server is going to be completely rebuilt from scratch so downloads may be a bit slower than usual while the primary picks up the load,u201d HandBrake said. u201cDuring this time, old versions of HandBrake will not be available.u201d " }n"
%%%Shamoon2012——2018
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c3e56cefc41c844ab242" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Shamoon 2 Used Rudimentary Method for Network Distribution", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/shamoon-2-used-rudimentary-method-network-distribution", "Date" : "March 28, 2017", "Article" : "Palo Alto Networks researchers have continued to analyze the Shamoon 2 attacks and determined that the method used by the malware to spread on the targeted organizations' networks is rudimentary, but efficient. The latest waves of attacks involving the disk-wiping malware Shamoon, aka Disttrack, have been analyzed by several security firms. IBM reported recently that the attackers delivered Shamoon using weaponized documents, and researchers have found connections to several other Iran-linked threat actors, including Charming Kitten (aka Newscaster, NewsBeef), Rocket Kitten, Magic Hound (aka Timberworm, COBALT GYPSY), and Greenbug. It has been known that the Shamoon 2 attacks involved stolen credentials and that the threat actors had access to the targeted organizationsu2019 networks well before the malware initiated its destructive routines. Symantec reported that the Magic Hound and Greenbug groups may have helped conduct reconnaissance, including stealing credentials and creating persistent backdoors. In a blog post published on Monday, Palo Alto Networks said it managed to determine exactly how the stolen credentials were used by the attackers. According to researchers, the hackers first compromised a single system on the network using the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) and stolen credentials. This machine, which became their distribution server, stored the attackersu2019 tools and malware. From this distribution server, the attackers attempted to connect to named systems on the network using compromised credentials and infect them with the Shamoon malware. From the named systems, the malware identified up to 256 IP addresses on the local network and spread to those devices. Then, from the newly infected systems, the malware attempted to spread to other 256 IP addresses on the local network. Experts believe the information on named hosts was obtained directly from Active Directory on a domain controller, which also suggests that the attackers used legitimate credentials in their operations. u201cThis rudimentary, but effective, distribution system can enable Disttrack to propagate to additional systems from a single, initially compromised system in a semi-automated fashion,u201d researchers said. Palo Alto Networks has also found more evidence linking the Shamoon attacks to the Magic Hound group. According to the security firm, one of the command and control (C&C) servers used by Magic Hound and a server hosting Shamoon files used IP addresses from the same range, namely 45.76.128.x. Another similarity is related to the use of PowerShell and Meterpreter. Palo Alto Networks agrees with Symantec on the theory that Magic Hound may have conducted the reconnaissance phase of the Shamoon 2 attacks. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c3e96cefc41c844ab244" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Iranian Hackers Target Aerospace, Energy Companies", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/iranian-hackers-target-aerospace-energy-companies", "Date" : "September 20, 2017", "Article" : "A cyber espionage group linked by security researchers to the Iranian government has been observed targeting aerospace and energy organizations in the United States, Saudi Arabia and South Korea. The threat actor, tracked by FireEye as APT33, is believed to have been around since at least 2013. Since mid-2016, the security firm has spotted attacks aimed by this group at the aviation sector, including military and commercial aviation, and energy companies with connections to petrochemical production. Specifically, the cyberspies targeted a U.S. organization in the aerospace sector, a Saudi Arabian business conglomerate with aviation holdings, and a South Korean firm involved in oil refining and petrochemicals. In recent attacks, the hackers used job vacancies at a Saudi Arabian petrochemical firm to target the employees of organizations in South Korea and Saudi Arabia. u201cWe assess the targeting of multiple companies with aviation-related partnerships to Saudi Arabia indicates that APT33 may possibly be looking to gain insights on Saudi Arabiau2019s military aviation capabilities to enhance Iranu2019s domestic aviation capabilities or to support Iranu2019s military and strategic decision making vis a vis Saudi Arabia,u201d FireEye said in a blog post. u201cWe believe the targeting of the Saudi organization may have been an attempt to gain insight into regional rivals, while the targeting of South Korean companies may be due to South Koreau2019s recent partnerships with Iranu2019s petrochemical industry as well as South Koreau2019s relationships with Saudi petrochemical companies,u201d the company added. According to FireEye, the cyber espionage group sent hundreds of spear phishing emails last year. They set up several domains made to look as if they belonged to Saudi aviation firms and international organizations that work with them, including Alsalam Aircraft Company, Boeing and Northrop Grumman Aviation Arabia. The malware used by the group includes a dropper tracked by FireEye as DROPSHOT, a wiper named SHAPESHIFT, and a backdoor called TURNEDUP. DROPSHOT was previously analyzed by Kaspersky, which tracks it as StoneDrill. The StoneDrill malware was tied by Kaspersky to the notorious Shamoon 2 and Charming Kitten (aka Newscaster and NewsBeef), a threat actor believed to be operating out of Iran. FireEye has also linked APT33 to Iran based on connections to the u201cNasr Institute,u201d which is said to be Iranu2019s u201ccyber armyu201d, attacks launched during Iranian working hours, and the use of Iranian hacking tools. Iran appears to have several cyber espionage groups, including Rocket Kitten, Cobalt Gypsy (Magic Hound), Charming Kitten and CopyKittens. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c3fb6cefc41c844ab260" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Middle East Governments Targeted With RanRan Ransomware", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/middle-east-governments-targeted-ranran-ransomware", "Date" : "March 09, 2017", "Article" : "Researchers at Palo Alto Networks have come across a new piece of ransomware that has been used in targeted attacks aimed at multiple government organizations in the Middle East. Instead of asking for money, the attackers behind this campaign instruct victims to make a political statement on their website. The ransomware, dubbed u201cRanRan,u201d is designed to encrypt various types of files stored on the infected system, including documents, archives, images, executables, logs, databases, source code and video files. A .zXz extension is assigned to encrypted files and an HTML file containing instructions on how to recover the files is dropped onto the device. Victims are told not to shut down their computer or run any antivirus program as this can lead to u201caccidental damage on files.u201d Unlike other ransomware, which typically ask for money, the threat group behind RanRan instructs victims to create a subdomain with a politically inflammatory name on their website. Victims are also instructed to upload to this subdomain a file named u201cRansomware.txtu201d with the text u201cHacked!u201d and their email address. u201cBy performing these actions, the victim, a Middle Eastern government organization, has to generate a political statement against the leader of the country,u201d said Palo Alto Networks researchers. u201cIt also forces the victim to publicly announce that they have been hacked by hosting the Ransomware.txt file.u201d Palo Alto Networks has not named any of the targeted government organizations and it has not made links to known threat groups. However, the security firm did say that it had not found any connection between these attacks and the recent Shamoon 2 campaign. According to researchers, the RanRan malware is not sophisticated and its developers have made some mistakes when implementing the file encryption mechanism, which appears to be based on publicly available source code. u201cRanRan makes a number of mistakes when encryption occurs,u201d researchers said. u201cFor one, they use a symmetric cipher (RC4) with a re-used key. Additionally, some files are encrypted, but the originals are not deleted. This is due to a number of reasons, one of which being that encryption is attempted against system files and other files that are opened by running processes.u201d Palo Alto Networks said victims of this ransomware may be able to decrypt some of the files if certain conditions are met. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c40b6cefc41c844ab27a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Ransomware Module Found in Shamoon 2.0", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/ransomware-module-found-shamoon-20", "Date" : "March 07, 2017", "Article" : "The Shamoon 2.0 malware used recently in attacks aimed at the Middle East has a fully functional ransomware module that can encrypt files on the infected device, Kaspersky Lab said on Monday. The security firm has published a report detailing Shamoon 2.0 and a new piece of malware, dubbed u201cStoneDrill,u201d that has been connected to both Shamoon and the Iran-linked threat actor Charming Kitten, aka NewsBeef and Newscaster. One of the most interesting pieces of information shared by the company about Shamoon 2.0 is that, in addition to its well-known wiper functionality, it includes a ransomware module. The ransomware functionality is currently inactive, but experts believe it could be leveraged in future Shamoon attacks. Once it infects a machine, Shamoon checks the system time to determine when to drop the main payload, which allows the attackers to either wipe or encrypt files and partitions. u201cIn the u2018encryption/ransomwareu2019 mode, a weak pseudo - random RC4 key is generated, which is further encrypted by the RSA public key and stored directly on the hard drive (at <DeviceHarddisk0Partition0>) starting at offset 0x201, right after the master boot record,u201d Kaspersky said in its report. The ransomware module can be used to encrypt Shamoon components, files stored in Windows folders (e.g. Desktop, Downloads, Documents, Pictures), NTFS master file table (MFT) data from all drives except the system drive, files in Windows system folders, and part of the FirmwareBootDevice partition. Shamoon is not the only wiper whose authors have recently decided to add ransomware functionality to their creation. Late last year, researchers reported that a variant of the KillDisk malware, which had been involved in the attacks on Ukraineu2019s energy sector, had been designed to encrypt files and hold them for ransom instead of deleting them. Kaspersky Lab also revealed that the resources used by Shamoon appear to have a Yemeni Arabic language ID. While this could indicate that the threat group behind Shamoon is located in Yemen, which would also have a good reason to target Saudi Arabia, itu2019s also possible that this is a false flag. Previously, researchers attributed the Shamoon attacks to Iran. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c40f6cefc41c844ab285" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Shamoon-Linked "StoneDrill" Malware Allows Spying, Destruction", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/shamoon-linked-stonedrill-malware-allows-spying-destruction", "Date" : "March 06, 2017", "Article" : "Researchers at Kaspersky Lab have come across a new and sophisticated piece of malware that can be used for both cyber espionage and wiping an infected computeru2019s storage. Dubbed u201cStoneDrill,u201d the malware has been linked to the notorious Shamoon 2 and Charming Kitten, aka Newscaster and NewsBeef, a threat actor believed to be located in Iran. The security firm has observed the threat being used in attacks aimed at entities in Saudi Arabia and one organization in Europe. Unlike in the case of Shamoon, which is known to have caused significant damage to oil giant Saudi Aramco, there are no reports of damaging attacks involving StoneDrill. Kaspersky Lab discovered StoneDrill using Yara rules created in an effort to identify unknown samples of Shamoon, aka Disttrack. Shamoon and StoneDrill donu2019t have the same codebase, but researchers said their authorsu2019 programming style and mindset are similar. While itu2019s unclear exactly how StoneDrill has been delivered to victims, once it infects a machine, the malware injects itself into the web browser process and uses sophisticated techniques designed for evading security products. The threat targets both physical and logical drives, and reboots the system once the wipe process is completed. Researchers pointed out that the wiper functionality in StoneDrill has been implemented using a new technique. Kaspersky has also identified a StoneDrill sample designed to act as a backdoor, likely for espionage operations. Researchers have identified four command and control (C&C) servers used for spying on an unknown number of targets. While there are similarities between StoneDrill and Shamoon, such as the October-November 2016 sample compilation dates and the fact that both store their payload inside encrypted resources, there are some significant differences. For instance, Shamoon doesnu2019t use advanced evasion techniques, it doesnu2019t rely on external scripts, and it leverages drivers instead of memory injections. Furthermore, StoneDrill uses C&C communications, which allows the attackers to interact with the malware instead of having to use a u201ckill timeu201d as in the Shamoon attacks. On the other hand, Kaspersky said StoneDrill seems more similar to a piece of malware used in APT campaigns attributed to Charming Kitten. Researchers discovered similarities in code, C&C naming conventions, backdoor commands and functionality, and Winmain signatures. In fact, StoneDrill appears to be an evolution of Charming Kitten malware.  While it is possible that StoneDrill is just another wiper used by the Shamoon actor, a more likely scenario, according to Kaspersky, is that these are separate groups with largely the same objectives. u201cWhen it comes to artefacts we can say that while Shamoon embeds Arabic-Yemen resource language sections, StoneDrill embeds mostly Persian resource language sections. Geopolitical analysts would probably be quick to point out that both Iran and Yemen are players in the Iran-Saudi Arabia proxy conflict, and Saudi Arabia is the country where most victims of these operations were found,u201d explained Kasperskyu2019s Mohamad Amin Hasbini. u201cBut of course, we do not exclude the possibility of these artefacts being false flags.u201d Shamoon, which had been delivered to victims via weaponized documents, has been linked to several groups believed to be operating out of Iran. Symantec reported recently that the threat actor behind the Shamoon attacks may have been aided by the groups tracked as Magic Hound (aka Timberworm and COBALT GYPSY) and Greenbug. These groups have been connected to both Charming Kitten and Rocket Kitten. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4186cefc41c844ab294" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Multiple Groups Cooperated in Shamoon Attacks: Symantec", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/multiple-groups-cooperated-shamoon-attacks-symantec", "Date" : "February 27, 2017", "Article" : "The recent attacks involving the notorious disk-wiping malware Shamoon, aka Disttrack, may have been carried out by multiple groups working together under the command of a single entity, Symantec said on Monday. A total of three Shamoon 2 attack waves were observed recently, including two in November 2016 and one on January 23. The attacks, believed by many to be the work of Iran, targeted organizations in the Persian Gulf, particularly Saudi Arabia. Experts have identified connections between apparently different threat groups and the Shamoon attacks. First, Symantec reported that an actor tracked by the company as Greenbug may have helped obtain credentials used in the Shamoon operation. Later, Palo Alto Networks published a report on Magic Hound, a campaign targeted at energy, government and technology sector organizations that are located or have an interest in Saudi Arabia. The operation involved domains and a RAT linked by IBM to Shamoon attacks. Researchers also found connections between the Magic Hound attacks and two other Iran-linked advanced persistent threat (APT) actors: Charming Kitten (Newscaster) and Rocket Kitten. Symantec tracks the group behind Magic Hound as Timberworm, and SecureWorks has named it COBALT GYPSY. Symantec said Timberworm apparently facilitated the January 2017 Shamoon attacks. The group, similar to Greenbug, gained access to the targeted organizationsu2019 systems weeks or months before Shamoon was deployed in order to conduct reconnaissance, harvest credentials and establish persistent remote access. Timberworm used spear-phishing emails and weaponized documents to gain a foothold in each organizationu2019s network. The attacker then leveraged custom malware, hacking tools and legitimate sysadmin applications to achieve its goals. The use of legitimate tools can help avoid detection and makes attribution more difficult. Both Greenbug and Timberworm penetrated the systems of many organizations u2013 not only in Saudi Arabia u2013 but the Shamoon worm was only deployed against specific targets. u201cTimberworm appears to be a much larger operation, infiltrating a much broader range of organizations beyond those affected by the recent Shamoon attacks. Similarly, Greenbug targeted a range of organizations in the Middle East beyond those affected by Shamoon, including companies in the aviation, energy, government, investment, and education sectors,u201d said Symantec researchers. u201cWhile both groups leveraged two distinct toolsets, their targets, tactics, and procedures align very well and in close proximity to the coordinated wiping events,u201d they added. The evidence suggests that the groups worked together and their activities may have been orchestrated by a single entity, experts said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4276cefc41c844ab2b3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Iranian Spies Target Saudi Arabia in "Magic Hound" Attacks", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/iranian-spies-target-saudi-arabia-magic-hound-attacks", "Date" : "February 16, 2017", "Article" : " A cyber espionage operation linked to Iran and the recent Shamoon 2 attacks has targeted several organizations in the Middle East, particularly in Saudi Arabia. Researchers at Palo Alto Networks have been monitoring the campaign, which dates back to at least mid-2016. Dubbed u201cMagic Hound,u201d the operation has been aimed at energy, government and technology sector organizations that are located or have an interest in Saudi Arabia. The threat actor behind Magic Hound has used a wide range of custom tools and an open-source cross-platform remote access tool (RAT) named Pupy. While Palo Alto Networks has not attributed these attacks to any country, researchers at SecureWorks have also analyzed the campaign and they believe it is related to an actor which they track as COBALT GYPSY. SecureWorks is highly confident that COBALT GYPSY is associated with the Iranian government. The Magic Hound attacks started with specially crafted macro-enabled Word and Excel documents set up to fetch additional tools using PowerShell. The malicious files appear to be holiday greeting cards, job offers, and official government documents from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Commerce in Saudi Arabia. The threat actor has used different types of custom tools to achieve its goals, including droppers, downloaders, executable loaders, document loaders and IRC bots. One of the payloads they delivered was the Python-based Pupy RAT. Itu2019s worth noting that some of the domains used in this attack and a link to the Pupy RAT were also uncovered by IBM X-Force researchers while trying to determine the initial entry point in the recent Shamoon 2 attacks. The initial breach vector, involving macro-enabled documents and PowerShell, is also similar. Palo Alto Networks has found connections between the Magic Hound attacks and the Iran-linked threat group known as Rocket Kitten, which has targeted organizations in the Middle East and NATO countries. Furthermore, an IRC bot used in the Magic Hound campaign is very similar to a piece of malware used by Newscaster, aka Charming Kitten and NewsBeef, an Iranian actor known to target individuals in the U.S., Israel and other countries using fake social media personas. The Charming Kitten and Rocket Kitten groups were also referenced recently in an analysis of MacDownloader, a piece of malware used by Iranian actors to steal data from Mac computers. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c42b6cefc41c844ab2b9" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Shamoon Malware Delivered via Weaponized Documents: IBM", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/shamoon-malware-delivered-weaponized-documents-ibm", "Date" : "February 16, 2017", "Article" : "The notorious disk-wiping malware Shamoon used macro-enabled documents and PowerShell scripts to infect targeted systems, according to IBMu2019s X-Force Incident Response and Intelligence Services (IRIS) team. Shamoon 2 was recently spotted in attacks aimed at Saudi Arabia and other states in the Persian Gulf. The malware, also known as Disttrack, has several variants, including one capable of targeting virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) products. An analysis conducted recently by Symantec showed that the attackers behind Shamoon, which many believe are based in Iran, may have been aided by a threat actor dubbed Greenbug. The security firm linked the Greenbug and Shamoon groups after discovering malware from both actors on the same system. X-Force IRIS researchers have analyzed the recent waves of Shamoon attacks and determined that the initial breach likely took place weeks before the malware was deployed and activated. Itu2019s worth noting that, in many cases, Shamoon had been programmed to step into action at a specified time and date, typically when the targeted organizationu2019s employees were less likely to notice its actions. Experts believe the attackers used weaponized Office documents as an entry point. The documents contained a malicious macro which, when executed, initiated command and control (C&C) communications and deployed a remote shell via PowerShell. The malicious files, which often included resumes and other human resources documents, were sent to targeted users via spear phishing emails. Some of the documents found by IBM referenced an Egypt-based software professional services organization named IT Worx, and Saudi Arabiau2019s Ministry of Commerce and Investment (MCI). Once the document is opened and the macro is executed, PowerShell is invoked to provide a communications channel to the compromised device, allowing attackers to remotely execute commands on it. The threat actor can use this access to deploy other tools and malware, and gain further access into the victimu2019s network. Once critical servers have been identified, the attackers can deploy Shamoon, which erases hard drives and causes systems to become inoperable. The macro found in the documents executed two PowerShell scripts, including one served from a domain that had hosted a cross-platform remote access tool named Pupy. The RAT and the domain in question were also spotted during the analysis of an Iran-linked campaign dubbed "Magic Hound." IBM researchers believe the recent analysis and warnings issued by Saudi Arabia will likely cause the Shamoon attackers to once again disappear, like they did after the 2012 Saudi Aramco operation, and change their tactics for the next wave of attacks. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c43c6cefc41c844ab2d4" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Iranian Cyberspy Groups Share Malware Code", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/iranian-cyberspy-groups-share-malware-code", "Date" : "July 27, 2017", "Article" : "Two cyberspy groups believed to be operating out of Iran, tracked by security firms as OilRig and Greenbug, have apparently shared malware code, according to researchers at Palo Alto Networks. While cyber espionage groups sponsored by the same government often try to keep their campaigns separate, in the past months, researchers found connections between several groups linked to Iran. Experts identified shared code, infrastructure and even operations where two actors apparently helped each other directly. One threat group, tracked as OilRig, has been around since 2015 and it has targeted many organizations, particularly in the financial and government sectors, in the United States and Middle Eastern countries. The actoru2019s attacks have often involved weaponized Microsoft Excel spreadsheets tracked as Clayslide and a backdoor dubbed Helminth. In attacks observed by Palo Alto Networks this summer, hackers used new versions of Clayslide to deliver their malware. However, instead of pushing Helminth, the malicious spreadsheet delivered a variant of ISMDoor, a remote access trojan (RAT) previously used by a group tracked as Greenbug. The activities of Greenbug were brought to light in early 2017 by Symantec, which believes the group may have helped the Iran-linked hackers who launched the Shamoon 2.0 attacks against Saudi Arabia last year. The new ISMDoor variant, dubbed ISMAgent by Palo Alto Networks, is similar to the old malware as they both use DNS tunneling, but there are some significant differences. According to experts, ISMDoor accepts a longer but more rigid list of commands, while ISMAgent accepts more limited but flexible commands. Researchers previously found links between the Shamoon attacks and an Iran-linked group tracked as Magic Hound (aka Cobalt Gypsy and Timberworm), and between Magic Hound and other Iranian actors named Rocket Kitten and Newscaster (aka Charming Kitten and NewsBeef). One hacker group that is also believed to be based in Iran, which has yet to be linked to other actors, is CopyKittens. CopyKittens has been around since at least 2013, targeting government organizations, academic institutions, IT firms, and defense companies in Israel, Saudi Arabia, the U.S., Jordan, Germany and Turkey. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4456cefc41c844ab2e7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Shamoon Attacks Possibly Aided by Greenbug Group", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/shamoon-attacks-possibly-aided-greenbug-group", "Date" : "January 24, 2017", "Article" : "The stolen credentials used in the recent Shamoon attacks aimed at organizations in the Persian Gulf may have been supplied by a threat group tracked by Symantec as u201cGreenbug.u201d Shamoon, aka Disttrack, is a disk-wiping malware that became widely known in 2012, when it damaged 35,000 computers belonging to petroleum and natural gas company Saudi Aramco. Shamoon 2, a more recent version of the threat, was recently used to target organizations in Saudi Arabia, including the countryu2019s General Authority of Civil Aviation (GACA). The first wave of Shamoon 2 attacks was launched on November 17 and a second wave on November 29. The attacks, which some have attributed to Iran, relied on the Disttrack malware to automatically start wiping infected systems at a specified time. The malware was planted on targeted systems using stolen credentials, and security firm Symantec believes the information may have been obtained in a prior attack launched by a threat actor named Greenbug. This cyber espionage group has used a remote access Trojan (RAT) called Ismdoor and various other tools in attacks aimed at organizations in the Middle East. The attackers targeted aviation, investment, government and education organizations in several countries, including Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait and Turkey, and a Saudi company in Australia. Greenbug has sent out fake business proposal emails to trick users into downloading malware onto their systems. The attackers delivered a RAR archive that stored a clean PDF and a compiled HTML help file (.chm) that contained the Ismdoor Trojan. In order to avoid detection, the malware has been hidden in alternate data streams (ADS). Once executed, Ismdoor opens a backdoor and uses PowerShell for command and control (C&C) purposes. The Trojan is designed to install other pieces of malware, including ones capable of logging keystrokes and collecting browser, email and other sensitive data. Symantec determined that Greenbug may have supplied credentials for the Shamoon attacks after detecting an Ismdoor infection on an administrator computer housed by one of the organizations targeted with Disttrack. Researchers have not found any solid evidence linking the threat actors, but they pointed out that Ismdoor and other Greenbug tools became inactive just one day before the November 17 attacks. Palo Alto Networks reported earlier this month that a variant of the Shamoon 2 malware is also designed to target virtualization products, likely in an effort to make recovery more difficult for attacked organizations. Saudi Arabia has warned organizations to be on alert following a series of new attacks, Reuters reported on Monday. The countryu2019s labor ministry, a chemicals firm and other companies have been allegedly hit. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c44e6cefc41c844ab2f7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Shamoon 2 Variant Targets Virtualization Products", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/shamoon-2-variant-targets-virtualization-products", "Date" : "January 10, 2017", "Article" : "A second variant of the Shamoon 2 malware discovered by researchers at Palo Alto Networks has been set up to target virtualization products, likely in an effort to increase the impact of the attack and make recovery more difficult for targeted organizations. Shamoon, aka Disttrack, is a disk-wiping malware that became widely known in 2012, when it damaged 35,000 computers belonging to Saudi Arabian petroleum and natural gas company Saudi Aramco. A newer version of the threat, dubbed Shamoon 2, was recently used to target various organizations in the Persian Gulf, including Saudi Arabiau2019s General Authority of Civil Aviation (GACA), which has downplayed the impact of the attack. Palo Alto Networks has come across two variants of Shamoon 2. The first variant, detailed shortly after the new attacks came to light, was configured to automatically start wiping infected systems in the evening of November 17, 2016, just as the work week ended in Saudi Arabia. The second variant discovered by the security firm had been configured to start wiping infected systems at 1:30 AM (Saudi Arabia time) on November 29, when the majority of the targeted organizationu2019s employees were likely at home. The payload delivered in this second wave was similar to the first one, but experts did find some differences. Same as in the first attacks, Shamoon spread throughout the local network using legitimate domain account credentials, including ones belonging to users and administrators. Since many of these passwords were complex, researchers believe the threat actor may have obtained the information as a result of a previous attack. Palo Alto Networks also highlighted that the second Shamoon 2 variant included credentials for virtualization products from Huawei, specifically virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) products such as FusionCloud.  These credentials can be found in the vendoru2019s official documentation, which suggests that the attackers either knew that the organization had been using these credentials based on information collected in a previous attack, or they were simply hoping that the defaults had not been changed. u201cVDI solutions can provide some protection against a destructive malware like Disttrack through the ability to load snapshots of wiped systems. Also, since FusionCloud systems run a Linux operating system, which would not be susceptible to wiping by the Windows-only Disttrack malware, this could be seen as a reasonable countermeasure against attacks like Shamoon,u201d Palo Alto Networksu2019 Robert Falcone wrote in a blog post. u201cHowever, if the attacker was able to log into the VDI management interfaces using the account credentials they could manually carry out destructive activities against the VDI deployment, as well as any snapshot,u201d Falcone added. Related Reading: KillDisk Malware Targets Linux Machines Related Reading: Iranian Group Delivers Malware via Fake Oxford University Sites " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c5b76cefc41c844ab4ba" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Iran: Narilam Malware Not a Major Threat", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/iran-narilam-malware-not-major-threat", "Date" : "November 26, 2012", "Article" : "Officials on Iran's computer emergency response team poured cold water on alerts about a strain of malware security researchers have warned is infecting databases throughout the country.   Last week, Symantec released a detailed analysis about a piece malware known as Narilam, which has primarily been targeting users in the Middle East though a small number of infections have been detected in the United States and the U.K. According to the company, the majority of the victims are corporate users.   Though the report received media coverage, authorities in Iran pointed out the malware is old and declared that it is not a threat for most users.   "The malware called "narilam" by Symantec was an old malware, previously detected and reported online in 2010 by some other names," according to a translation of a statement from Iran-CERT. "This malware has no sign of a major threat, nor a sophisticated piece of computer malware. The sample is not wide spread and is only able to corrupt the database of some of the products by an Iranian software company, those products are accounting software for small businesses. The simple nature of the malware looks more like a try to harm the software company reputation among their customers."   According to an analysis by Kaspersky Lab, Narilam was probably deployed during late 2009 and mid-2010.   "Its purpose was to corrupt databases of three financial applications from TarrahSystem, namely Maliran, Amin and Shahd," Kaspersky Lab noted. "Several variants appear to have been created, but all of them have the same functionality and method of replication.Reports from Kaspersky Security Network indicate that the malware was found mostly in Iran (~60%) and Afghanistan (~40%)."   "At the moment, we do not see any direct connection with other recent destructive malware (such as Shamoon or Wiper). Unlike Duqu or Flame, there is no apparent cyberespionage function," the analysis continued. "The malware is currently almost extinct u2013 during the past month, we have observed just six instances of this threat."   Symantec itself classified the threat as 'low' in terms of the distribution. Written in Delphi, the malware copies itself to the infected machine, adds registry keys and spreads through removable drives and network shares. What is more unique about it is that it has functionality to update a Microsoft SQL database provided it is accessible by Object Linking and Embedding Database (OLEDB), and specifically targets SQL databases with three distinct names: alim, maliran, and shahd.   u00a0"The malware does not have any functionality to steal information from the infected system and appears to be programmed specifically to damage the data held within the targeted database," according to Symantec. "Given the types of objects that the threat searches for, the targeted databases seem to be related to ordering, accounting, or customer management systems belonging to corporations."   "Unless appropriate backups are in place, the affected database will be difficult to restore," Symantec warned. "The affected organization will likely suffer significant disruption and even financial loss while restoring the database. As the malware is aimed at sabotaging the affected database and does not make a copy of the original database first, those affected by this threat will have a long road to recovery ahead of them." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c5da6cefc41c844ab4c9" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Shamoon Malware Variant Appears: Symantec", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/new-shamoon-malware-variant-appears-symantec", "Date" : "September 04, 2012", "Article" : "Shamoon is still busy infecting computers throughout the world, this time with an updated variant, according to new findings by Symantec. The new version of the malware u2013 detected by the firm as W32.Disttrack u2013 wipes files by overwriting them with 192KB blocks of randomly generated data as opposed to the previous version, which used a 192KB block filled with a partial image of a burning U.S. flag. Shamoon is believed by many to have been used in an attack last month on Saudi Aramco, the national oil company of Saudi Arabia. It is also has been linked by some to an attack that forced one of Qatar's two main LNG (Liquid Natural Gas) production and export companies offline. "The initial infection vector remains unconfirmed and may vary in different organizations, but once W32.Disttrack is inside a network, it will attempt to spread to every computer within the local area network via network shares," according to Symantec's Security Response Team. "While Shamoon may piggyback on existing machine-to-machine credentials, typically Shamoon attackers have gained access to domain credentials and the domain controller itself, allowing them access to all machines on the local domain." The malware uses a hardcoded "wiping date" read from the .pnf file it creates on the file system, Symantec said. It will periodically check this date. Once it has passed, the malware will drop and execute the wiper component, which will target a prioritized list of files before moving on to the master boot record and active partition. Once a target is found, Symantec said it will attempt to open and close the following files to determine that it has access:  [TARGET IP]ADMIN$system32csrss.exe [TARGET IP]C$WINDOWSsystem32csrss.exe [TARGET IP]D$WINDOWSsystem32csrss.exe [TARGET IP]E$WINDOWSsystem32csrss.exe "If successful, it will then copy itself to the remote system32 directory and attempt to execute itself using psexec.exe," the response team explained. "If unsuccessful, it will try to load itself as a remote service. Once it has successfully looped through all target machines it will delete itself." Last month, Saudi Aramco officials said that 30,000 workstations were impacted by the cyber-attack. However, it was able to clean the systems and restore them to service. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bd546cefc42b002934b7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "APT33: Researchers Expose Iranian Hacking Group Linked to Destructive Malware", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2017/09/apt33-iranian-hackers.html", "Date" : "2017-09-20T07:53:00-11:00", "Article" : "Security researchers have recently uncovered a cyber espionage group targeting aerospace, defence and energy organisations in the United States, Saudi Arabia and South Korea. According to the latest research published Wednesday by US security firm FireEye, an Iranian hacking group that it calls Advanced Persistent Threat 33 (or APT33) has been targeting critical infrastructure, energy and military sectors since at least 2013 as part of a massive cyber-espionage operation to gather intelligence and steal trade secrets. The security firm also says it has evidence that APT33 works on behalf of Iran's government. FireEye researchers have spotted cyber attacks aimed by APT33 since at least May 2016 and found that the group has successfully targeted aviation sectoru2014both military and commercialu2014as well as organisations in the energy sector with a link to petrochemical. The APT33 victims include a U.S. firm in the aerospace sector, a Saudi Arabian business conglomerate with aviation holdings, and a South Korean company involved in oil refining and petrochemicals. Most recently, in May 2017, APT33 targeted employees of a Saudi organisation and a South Korean business conglomerate using a malicious file that attempted to entice them with job vacancies for a Saudi Arabian petrochemical company. "We believe the targeting of the Saudi organisation may have been an attempt to gain insight into regional rivals, while the targeting of South Korean companies may be due to South Koreau2019s recent partnerships with Iranu2019s petrochemical industry as well as South Koreau2019s relationships with Saudi petrochemical companies," the FireEye report reads. APT33 targets organisations by sending spear phishing emails with malicious HTML links to infect targets' computers with malware. The malware used by the espionage group includes DROPSHOT (dropper), SHAPESHIFT (wiper) and TURNEDUP (custom backdoor, which is the final payload). However, in previous research published by Kaspersky, DROPSHOT was tracked by its researchers as StoneDrill, which targeted petroleum company in Europe and believed to be an updated version of Shamoon 2 malware. "Although we have only directly observed APT33 use DROPSHOT to deliver the TURNEDUP backdoor, we have identified multiple DROPSHOT samples in the wild that drop SHAPESHIFT," the report reads. The SHAPESHIFT malware can wipe disks, erase volumes and delete files, depending on its configuration. According to FireEye, APT 33 sent hundreds of spear phishing emails last year from several domains, which masqueraded as Saudi aviation companies and international organisations, including Boeing, Alsalam Aircraft Company and Northrop Grumman Aviation Arabia. The security firm also believes APT 33 is linked to Nasr Institute, an Iranian government organisation that conducts cyber warfare operations. In July, researchers at Trend Micro and Israeli firm ClearSky uncovered another Iranian espionage group, dubbed Rocket Kittens, that was also active since 2013 and targeted organisations and individuals, including diplomats and researchers, in Israel, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the United States, Jordan and Germany. However, FireEye report does not show any links between both the hacking group. For more technical details about the APT33 operations, you can head on to FireEye's official blog post." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d7bb6cefc42b00293724" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Aramco cyber attacks intends to stop oil production", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/12/aramco-cyber-attacks-intends-to-stop.html", "Date" : "2012-12-10T02:34:00-11:00", "Article" : "Saudi Arabia's national oil company "Aramco" is the countryu2019s largest oil production facility and is a significant exporter in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. They said that a cyber attack against it in August which damaged some 30,000 computers was aimed at stopping oil and gas production at the biggest OPEC exporter. The interior ministry said it was carried out by organised hackers from several different foreign countries and Aramco employees and contractors were not involved. u201cThe main target in this attack was to stop the flow of oil and gas to local and international markets and thank God they were not able to achieve their goals,u201d Abdullah al-Saadan, Aramcou2019s vice president for corporate planning, said on Al Ekhbariya television. u201cNot a drop of oil was lost and the company was able to restore productivity in record time,u201d he added. The hackers used several methods to hide their location The attack used a computer virus known as Shamoon, spread through Aramcou2019s network and wiped computersu2019 hard drives clean. Aramco said damage was limited to office computers and did not affect systems software that might harm technical operations. Later, Hacker group called Cutting Sword of Justice claimed responsibility for the attack. A posting on the website of Cutting Sword of Justice a day before the attack accused Saudi Arabia of crimes and atrocities in countries that include Bahrain and Syria." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d8176cefc42b00293754" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "US authorities : Iranian Hackers are Becoming a Real Pain", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/10/us-authorities-iranian-hackers-are.html", "Date" : "2012-10-14T04:07:00-11:00", "Article" : "The U.S. have admitted they believe a series of cyber attacks on domestic banks and some foreign oil companies carried out over the last year are the handy work of a group of hackers linked to the Iranian government. Defence Secretary Leon Panetta said the cyberthreat from Iran has grown, and declared that the Pentagon is prepared to take action if America is threatened by a computer-based assault. The hackers are apparently part of a group of less than 100 computer security specialists from Iranian universities and network security firms, according to an unnamed US government official. American officials have said they are able to discover the source of the recent cyberattacks. We do welcome this and announce our readiness for any international cooperation to find the source of the attacks. The Iranian official said Tehran has already offered help to boost the companies cybersecurity, as Iran has itself recently been the victim of cyberattacks on its offshore oil platforms. The cyberattacks hit the Saudi Arabian state oil company Aramco and Qatari natural gas producer RasGas using a virus, known as Shamoon, which can spread through networked computers and ultimately wipes out files by overwriting them. Iran blames Israel and the United States for the attacks. Subscribe to our Daily Newsletter via email - Be First to know about Security and Hackers. or Join our Huge Hackers Community on Facebook, Google+ and Twitter." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d8496cefc42b0029376e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Malware Attack on 2nd Largest Liquefied Natural Gas Producer", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/09/malware-attack-on-2nd-largest-liquefied.html", "Date" : "2012-08-31T11:48:00-11:00", "Article" : "Reports have surfaced that liquified natural gas (LNG) producer RasGas, based in the Persian Gulf nation of Qatar, has been struck by an unidentified virus, this time shutting down its website and email servers. The malware, however, did not affect the companyu2019s operational computers that control the production and delivery of gas, an official of the Ras Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas company. The attack reportedly began Aug. 27. The RasGas website was still unavailable on Thursday, three days after the attack. For the second time in two weeks a virus outbreak has been reported at an energy company in that region. Earlier this week the Saudi Aramco oil company confirmed that its network was hit by a virus two weeks ago, shutting down 30,000 workstations. Neither company identified the virus, but in at least one of the cases it is believed to be malware known as "Shamoon." A joint venture between Qatar Petroleum and ExxonMobil, RasGas exports about 36.3 million tons of liquefied natural gas per year. The attacks come as security researchers are tracking a malware campaign directed at unspecified companies in the energy industry. Based on the information that is publicly available, the attacks on RasGas and Saudi Aramco appear to be major inconveniences rather than catastrophic events. Speculation has run high over who is behind the Shamoon attacks, everything from a traditional hacktivist group to the Iranian government. Attack on the Iranian oil industry, is believed to have been the inspiration for the attackers who subsequently targeted Saudi Aramco and RasGas." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d8546cefc42b00293772" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Saudi Aramco Oil Producer's 30,000 workstations victim of Cyber Attack", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/08/saudi-aramco-oil-producers-30000.html", "Date" : "2012-08-26T17:40:00-11:00", "Article" : "Saudi Aramco, the world's biggest oil producer, has resumed operating its main internal computer networks after a virus infected about 30,000 of its workstations in mid-August. Immediately after the Aug. 15 attack, the company announced it had cut off its electronic systems from outside access to prevent further attacks. Saudi Aramco said the virus "originated from external sources" and that its investigation into the matter was ongoing. There was no mention of whether this was related to this month's Shamoon attacks. u201cThe disruption was suspected to be the result of a virus that had infected personal workstations without affecting the primary components of the network,u201d Saudi Aramco said over Facebook. u201cWe would like to emphasize and assure our stakeholders, customers and partners that our core businesses of oil and gas exploration, production and distribution from the wellhead to the distribution network were unaffected and are functioning as reliably as ever,u201d Saudi Aramcou2019s chief executive, Khalid al-Falih, said in a statement. However, one of Saudi Aramcou2019s websites which was taken offline after the attack - www.aramco.com - remained down yesterday. E-mails sent by Reuters to people within the company continued to bounce back. Supposed hacktivists have claimed the hit on the oil giant, saying they would hit the company again tomorrow. The group said it was u201cfed up of crimes and atrocities taking place in various countries around the worldu201d, in a post on Pastebin. They said they were targeting the House of Saud, the ruling royal family of Saudi Arabia, and targeted Aramco as it was u201cthe largest financial source for Al-Saud regimeu201d. The group, calling itself the u2018Cutting Sword of Justiceu2019, claimed to have hacked Aramco systems in several countries before sending a virus across 30,000 computers achieving a 75 percent infection rate of all the companyu2019s systems. It refuted suggestions that a nation state was behind the attack. Symantec, one of the worldu2019s largest internet security companies, said on the day after the Saudi Aramco attack that it had discovered a new virus that was targeting at least one organisation in the global energy sector, although it did not name that organisation. u201cIt is a destructive malware that corrupts files on a compromised computer and overwrites the MBR (Master Boot Record) in an effort to render a computer unusable,u201d Symantec said in a blog posting about the virus, which it called W32.Disttrack. u201cThreats with such destructive payloads are unusual and are not typical of targeted attacks.u201d Saudi Aramcou2019s al-Falih said in his statement yesterday: u201cSaudi Aramco is not the only company that became a target for such attempts, and this was not the first nor will it be the last illegal attempt to intrude into our systems, and we will ensure that we will further reinforce our systems with all available means to protect against a recurrence of this type of cyber attack.u201d" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d8636cefc42b0029377a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Shamoon Malware : Permanently wiping data from Energy Industry Computers", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2012/08/shamoon-malware-permanently-wiping-data.html", "Date" : "2012-08-16T12:40:00-11:00", "Article" : "Malware researchers have uncovered an attack targeting an organization in the energy industry that attempts to wreak havoc by permanently wiping data from an infected computer's hard drive and rendering the machine unusable. Symantec would not name the victimized firm, and so far has seen the attack only in this one organization. W32.Disttrack is a new threat that is being used in specific targeted attacks against at least one organization in the energy sector. It is a destructive malware that corrupts files on a compromised computer and overwrites the MBR (Master Boot Record) in an effort to render a computer unusable. W32.Disttrack consists of several components:Dropperu2014the main component and source of the original infection. It drops a number of other modules. Wiperu2014this module is responsible for the destructive functionality of the threat. Reporteru2014this module is responsible for reporting infection information back to the attacker. "Ten years ago we used to see purely malicious threats like this," muses Symantec researcher Liam O Murchu. The likely scenario for the victim would be an experience in which the computer is booting up, but all the files get erased, and the computer collapses into a non-bootable state. Saudi Arabia-based Saudi Aramco, the worldu2019s largest crude exporter, was reportedly hit by a computer virus this week that entered its network through personal computers. Shamoon is unusual because it goes to great lengths to ensure destroyed data can never be recovered, something that is rarely seen in targeted attacks. It has self-propagation capabilities that allow it to spread from computer to computer using shared network disks. It overwrites disks with a small portion of a JPEG image found on the Internet." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36574e6cefc42b0029391b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Clues Surface on Shamoon 2u2019s Destructive Behavior", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-clues-surface-on-shamoon-2s-destructive-behavior/124587/", "Date" : "March 27, 2017 , 4:51 pm", "Article" : "Researchers on Monday reported progress in piecing together some of the missing pieces of the Shamoon 2 puzzle that have been eludingu00a0them when it comes to lateral network movement and execution of the Disttrack malware component used in past campaigns. Shamoon 2 uses a combination of legitimate tools, such as the open source utility PAExec, and batch scripts to evade detection and spread itself throughout a network, researchers at Palo Alto said, adding there are new links between Shamoon 2 and the Magic Hound campaign. Shamoon has been blamed for nearly a decade of destructive campaigns against organizations based in Saudi Arabia. Disttrack is the Shamoon malware component and is known for its hallmark destructive behavior, where it spreads through the companyu2019s network and overwrites the Master Boot Record on every computer it finds. u201cWhatu2019s new here is the actual distribution and spreading mechanism of the Disttrack malware. Nobody has figured out how the adversaries are doing this. What we found, they are using a rudimentary but effective technique for spreading Disttrack and wiping systems,u201d said Bryan Lee, threat intelligence analyst. Researchers observed in the latest Shamoon 2 campaigns, that the group behind the attacks leveraged not only user credentials of those it was targeting, but also the local host names and IP address of associated servers and endpoints within a targeted network. u201cWe have found evidence that the actors use a combination of legitimate tools and batch scripts to deploy the Disttrack payload to hostnames known to the attackers to exist in the targeted network,u201d wrote Robert Falcone, threat intelligence analyst and Lee, who co-authored a research blog on the findings. Researchers said they found a Zip archive in January that contains files which the attacker used to infect other systems on the targeted network. u201cThe actor deploys the Zip archive to this distribution server by logging in to the compromised system using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) with stolen, legitimate credentials and downloading the Zip from a remote server,u201d researchers note. From a single compromised system, attackers are able to distribute Disttrack to other systems on a local network via a list of 256 other system host names and IP addresses that were previously acquired. u201cWhile we do not know exactly how the threat actor initially compromised and gained RDP access to the Disttrack distribution server, we believe the actor downloads a Zip archive contained a number of files to this system,u201d Lee said. The set of files saved to the distribution server are executables, batch scripts and text files, including; u201cexec-template.txt,u201d u201cok.batu201d and u201cpa.exeu201d to name a few. Interestingly, researchers note, the text files were sequentially numbered between 1 to 400 and contained DNS values for hostnames of systems already on the targeted network. Palo Altou00a0believes the computer and host names were obtained from prior network probing and sourced from the Active Directory on the domain controller of the infected network. Next, instead of running a batch script u2013 as researchers previously assumed happened u2013 adversaries manually copy the contents of exec-template.txt and pastes these commands directly within command prompt to run them. Now, the u201cok.batu201d batch script runs on each of the hostnames targeted. u201cThis batch script is responsible for deploying Disttrack on each of these systems on the network. The script begins by copying two files to the u201cC:Windowstempu201d folder on the remote system. The two copied files u2013 named u201cntertmgr32.exeu201d and u201cntertmgr32.batu201d u2013 are the Disttrack payload and a batch script used to install the Disttrack payload on the local system, respectively,u201d according the research. Part of the obfuscation of Disttrack is to use PAExec (u201cpa.exeu201d) application to run the u201cntertmgr32.batu201d installation script. u201cWith the exception of meterpreter (a component of Metasploit), the tools and batch scripts used are meant to fly under the radar of IT admin,u201d Lee said. While other organizations, such as Arbor Networks and IBMu2019s X-Force, have also found some connections between Shamoon and Magic Hound, there has been little more than circumstantial connections, Lee said. u201cWhat we have here is, not something completely concrete either, but strong new indicators of a relationship between Shamoon 2 and Magic Hound,u201d he said. Links between Magic Hound and Shamoon 2 include sharing the same London-based C2 server and IP range. u201cThe use of this specific IP (by Shamoon) is interesting, as the Magic Hound campaign we previously reported on (February 2017) used a command and control (C2) server at 45.76.128[.]165, which is on the same Class C IP range,u201d Lee said. Other similarities include targeting of entities within Saudi Arabia and sharing the same modus operandi of using PowerShell commands and the utility Meterpreter. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657896cefc42b0029397a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Destructive StoneDrill Wiper Malware On The Loose", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/destructive-stonedrill-wiper-malware-on-the-loose/124090/", "Date" : "March 6, 2017 , 2:27 pm", "Article" : "There have been a handful of wiper malware attacks in the wild in the last decade with Shamoonu2019s destruction of more than 35,000 workstations at Saudi Aramco in 2012 and the Dark Seoul attacks on Sony Pictures Entertainment the most high profile. However, since last fall, Shamoon has resurfaced with a variant again mostly targeting organizations in Saudi Arabia. It also includes a newly discovered ransomware component in addition to its wiping functionality that has already been seen in two attacks in November and another in January. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab released new information today about another piece of wiper malware found in the wild called StoneDrill that also targets organizations in Saudi Arabia, and was also found inside a European petro-chemical organization, harkening to a potential expansion of these types of attacks outside the Middle East. StoneDrill also bears similarities to an APT group known as NewsBeef, or Charming Kitten, for its use of the Browser Exploitation Framework known as BEeF. The similarities are numerous and include familiar WinMain and OS signatures, update commands, and command-and-control server names. Itu2019s unknown whether the groups behind Shamoon and StoneDrill are the same, or are simply aligned in interests and regions in which they target.  u201cWipers in cyberespionage attacks rarely come around,u201d Kaspersky Lab researcher Juan Guerrero-Saade said. u201cSabotage is rare and runs counter to what youu2019d expect an APT actor to be interested in.u201d APT actors covet stealthy access and persistence inside a network in order to maintain visibility over a target, steal data or load more malware and exploits onto compromised machines, Guerrero-Saade said, adding that the wiper functionality attached to StoneDrill has not been used in the wild yet. u201cThe wiper component is in place in StoneDrill, we just have not seen it leveraged adequately,u201d Guerrero-Saade said. u201cSpeaking to the rarity of sabotage operations, there have probably been less than 10 in the last decade, which suggests how careful they are with using them.u201d StoneDrill was discovered during Kaspersky Labu2019s investigation into Shamoon 2. As a number of Yara rules written to catch behaviors associated with Shamoon around its use of Windows API functions to enumerate files it wants to wipe, also triggered with this new malware. StoneDrill is similar stylistically to Shamoon, but has been developed to include enhanced evasion techniques and a new means of injecting the wiper malware directly into the victimu2019s preferred browser rather than through the user of drivers as the original Shamoon did.  u201cThe idea is that in this way, attackers can bypass security software by doing wiping operations through a trusted process,u201d Guerrero-Saade said.nDepending on the configuration, StoneDrill is capable of wiping data by overwriting physical and logical drives with random data and then deleting folders in the logical drives. u201cWhat weu2019re starting to understand is that given the code similarities between StoneDrill and NewsBeef, the connection between them is well cemented and interesting,u201d Guerrero-Saade said. Some of those similarities include the update commands, decryption routines, Winmain and OSU signatures and similar naming conventions around command and control servers (serveic[.]com v. service[.]com, for example). Shamoon 2, meanwhile, also contains extensive spying capabilities starting with a still-unknown attack used to steal administrator credentials to facilitate lateral movement; these attacks donu2019t rely on exploits targeting known or unknown vulnerabilities, Guerrero-Saade said. The stolen credentials are then hardcoded into Shamoon 2 and allows the attackers to compromise one machine and then use the stolen credentials to embed themselves elsewhere in the network. Shamoon has been used against 11 organizations in Saudi Arabia, the Saudi National Cyber Security Center says. The ransomware component of Shamoon 2 has yet to be used in the wild, Guerrero-Saade said. Itu2019s unknown how the attackers would leverage this part of the platform to hold their victims hostage for financial or idealistic gain. Kaspersky Lab said that Shamoon is designed to run either as a wiper or encryptor; a weak RC4 key is generated on the machine that is encrypted by an RSA public key and stored on the local hard drive. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36579c6cefc42b0029399c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Researchers Uncover New Leads Behind Shamoon2", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/researchers-uncover-new-leads-behind-shamoon2/123903/", "Date" : "February 24, 2017 , 5:06 pm", "Article" : "In a fresh analysis of the Shamoon2 malware, researchers from Arbor Networksu2019 Security Engineering and Response Team (ASERT) say they have unearthed newu00a0leads on the tools and techniques used in the most recent wave of attacks. Shamoon2 surfaced in November, approximately four years after the original Shamoon was used in attacks againstu00a0Saudi Aramco, a national petroleum and natural gas company based in Saudi Arabia. Like the original Shamoon malware, the updated version also destroys computer hard drives by wiping the master boot record and the data. Shamoon2 also targets petrochemical targets, but also the Saudi Arabian central bank system, according to reports. However, up until last week, researchers were still searching for basic answers to questions about how Shamoon2 infects its hosts and its backend infrastructure. Neal Dennis, cyber threat intelligence analyst at Arbor Networks, said that thanks to third-party research the ASERT team was able to answer new questions regarding Shamoon2. u201cIt is our hope that by providing additional indicators, endpoint investigators and network defenders will be able to discover and mitigate more Shamoon2 related compromises,u201d Dennis wrote in a blog post explaining his research. Last week IBMu2019s X-Force reportedu00a0how Shamoon2 was infecting hosts. In its report, X-Force said document-based malicious macros were used as means of initial infections. Emails sent to targets included a document containing a malicious macro that, when approved to execute, enables command and controlu00a0communications to the attackeru2019s server via PowerShell commands. Next, attackers use that access to deploy additional tools and access further network resources. Attackers then download and deploy the Shamoon2 malware. Using X-Forceu2019s research as a springboard, Dennis said ASERT was able dig deeper and conduct a first-time analysis of the Shamoon2 backend infrastructure. By analyzing three X-Force malware samples, Dennis said he was able to trace them back to malicious domains, IP addresses, and other previous unknown Shamoon2 malware artifacts. ASERT said its analysis of the Shamoon2 show connections with Middle Eastern state-sponsored groups such as Magic Hound and PuppyRAT. That may not be a major revelation, considering in 2012 Shamoon malware was also linked to Middle Eastern state-sponsored groups. u201cNow we can begin to see who is behind Shamoon2 and how its backend infrastructure works,u201d Dennis said. Dennis said ASERT researchers were able to piggyback on X-Forceu2019s research and cross-reference the malicious document author name u201cgerry.knightu201d and other IP addresses used by Shamoon2u2019s PowerShell to threat actors Magic Hound and PuppyRAT. u201cIn this case, a sample from the IBM report indicated the document author was u2018gerry.knight,'u201d Dennis said. That led ASERT to three additional samples of documents used to distribute malicious macros unrelated to the Shamoon2 campaigns, Dennis said. Those samples matched existing documents used in Magic Hound campaigns. An additional clue was a u201csloo.exeu201d file dumped by Shamoon2 in a targeted PCu2019s Temp folder. u201cThe file was created at C:Documents and SettingsAdminLocal SettingsTempsloo.exe. In addition to this file, the sample also contacted 104.238.184[.]252 for the PowerShell executable,u201d Dennis wrote in a technical description of his research. He said that separate research by Palo Alto Networks attributed the u201csloo.exeu201d file and also related activities to Magic Hound. Further analysis on IPs used by Shamoon2u2019s PowerShell also showed existing credential harvesting campaigns once used one the domain go-microstf[.]com which was originally set up to spoof Google Analytics login page. This spoof campaign, Dennis said, was active as recently as January, the timeframe of the last Shamoon2 attacks. u201cWe have pulled a lot of related research together here and connected a lot of dots for the first time,u201d Dennis said. u201cThis additional research will hopefully provide more context into the ongoing Shamoon2 threat.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3657ab6cefc42b002939b3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Iranian APT33 Targets US Firms with Destructive Malware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/iranian-apt33-targets-us-firms-with-destructive-malware/128074/", "Date" : "September 21, 2017 , 1:54 pm", "Article" : "The Iranian group known as APT33 is believed to be behind a cyberespionage campaign targeting aerospace, petrochemical and energy sector firms located in the United States, Saudi Arabia and South Korea. The groupu2019s latest attack leverages a dropper called DropShot that is tied to the StoneDrill wiper malwareu2014a variant of the infamousu00a0Shamoon 2, according to a report released Wednesday by FireEye. The malware is being distributed via spear phishing campaigns that includes advertisements for jobs at Saudi Arabian aviation companies and Western organizations, researchers said. Emails include recruitment themed lures that contain links to malicious HTML application (.hta) files, researchers said. u201cThe .hta files contained job descriptions and links to legitimate job postings on popular employment websites that would be relevant to the targeted individuals,u201d researchers said. u201cUnbeknownst to the user, the .hta file also contained embedded code that automatically downloaded a custom APT33 backdoor (TurnedUp).u201d Links in emails used spoofed domains for firms Boeing, Alsalam Aircraft Company, Northrop Grumman Aviation Arabia and Vinnell Arabia. Many of the victims who clicked on the link inadvertently downloaded DropShot. In March, Kaspersky Lab released a report on StoneDrill linking the malware to a variant of Shamoon, which targeted firms Saudi Aramco and Rasgas in 2012. StoneDrillu00a0 also was used against organizations in Saudi Arabia, and was found inside a European petrochemical organizations. u201cStoneDrill has several u2018styleu2019 similarities to Shamoon, with multiple interesting factors and techniques to allow for the better evasion of detection,u201d Kaspersky wrote in its report From Shamoon to Stonedrill (PDF). Kaspersky researchers concluded StoneDrill also bears similarities to an APT group known as NewsBeef, or Charming Kitten, for its use of the Browser Exploitation Framework known as BEeF. But, Kaspersky and FireEye both said itu2019s unknown whether the groups behind Shamoon and StoneDrill are the same, or are simply aligned in interests and regions in which they target. Researchers said APT33 has been operational since 2013 carrying out various active cyber espionage operations on the behalf of the Iranian government. u201cMore recently, in May 2017, APT33 appeared to target a Saudi organization and a South Korean business conglomerate using a malicious file that attempted to entice victims with job vacancies for a Saudi Arabian petrochemical company,u201d FireEye researchers wrote. The goal of the attacks is to boost Iranu2019s own aviation capabilities, gather Saudi-related military intelligence for Iran and to help Iranian petrochemical firms gain a competitive advantage over Saudi Arabian companies, according to researchers. u201cWe identified APT33 malware tied to an Iranian persona who may have been employed by the Iranian government to conduct cyber threat activity against its adversaries,u201d according to FireEye. u201cWe assess an actor using the handle u2018xman_1365_xu2019 may have been involved in the development and potential use of APT33u2019s TurnedUp backdoor.u201d Researchers came to that conclusion because the handle Xman_1365_x appeared in the processing-debugging (PDB) paths of many of TurnedUp backdoor samples they collected. Researchers also believe that Xman_1365_x was also a community manager in an Iranian programming and software engineering forum Barnamenevis and registered accounts in the well-known Iranian Shabgard and Ashiyane forums. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36581f6cefc42b00293a69" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Shamoon Collaborator Greenbug Adopts New Communication Tool", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/shamoon-collaborator-greenbug-adopts-new-communication-tool/125383/", "Date" : "May 2, 2017 , 5:52 pm", "Article" : "Researchers have identified a possible new collaborator in the continued Shamoon attacks against Saudi organizations. Called Greenbug, this group is believed to be instrumental in helping Shamoon steal user credentials of targets ahead of Shamoonu2019s destructive attacks. However, researchers know about as much about Greenbug as they do Shamoon; which isnu2019t much. But, thatu2019s slowly changing. On Tuesday, Arbor Networks said that it has new leads on a credential stealing remote access Trojan (RAT) called Ismdoor, possibly used by Greenbug to steal credentials on Shamoonu2019s behalf. u201cWith our latest research we now see how Greenbug has shifted away from HTTP-based C2 communication with Ismdoor. Itu2019s now relying on a new DNS-based attack technique to better cloak command and control communications between Greenbug and the malware,u201d said Dennis Schwarz, research analyst on Arboru2019s ASERT Team, in an interview with Threatpost. He said Greenbug is using DNS TXT record queries and responses to create a bidirectional command and control channel. u201cOne major change in recent versions (of Ismdoor) has been the replacement of the old HTTP based command and control functionality with a custom covert channel using AAAA DNS queries for IPv6 addresses,u201d Schwarz wrote in a technical analysis of the malware posted Monday. Using the DNS attack technique, adversaries can use DNS communications to submit commands to be run on systems infected with the Ismdoor RAT. Schwarz said using this technique, data is also be exfiltrated from the machines as well. u201cThis is an extremely rare and covert way to administer a RAT,u201d he said. DNS tunneling takes advantage of the TXT transport layer within the DNS protocol used by top- and second-level domain name system servers. A maximum of 255 bytes of data can be transported via DNS requests between endpoint and a DNS server using the TXT layer. For attackers that have already gained a foothold on targeted systems, the DNS tunneling of commands and DNS tunneling used to remove data is extremely slow, but well suited for long term APT campaigns. u201cAll data sent between the bot and the C2 is done using AAAA DNS UDP queries. Data to the C2 is via specially crafted query names and data from the C2 is returned via IPv6 addresses. The bot side of the connection drives all communications,u201d accordingu00a0 to Schwarzu2019s analysis. Use of DNS-based message attacks has been used in similar attacks documented by Cisco Talos where adversaries use DNS queries to carry out malicious PowerShell commands on compromised computers. Last year, Palo Alto Networks reported a shift in malware tactics used by the APT group Wekby that utilized the DNSu00a0TXT transport layer. Cisco calls these types of attacks DNSMessenger attacks. Palo Alto Networks calls themu00a0DNS tunneling attacks. In the context of the Ismdoor RAT, the DNS attack technique is used primarily by Greenbug for stealing credentials. To do this, it employs a number of specific commands via DNSMessenger. One is u201cCreateMimi1Batu201d; which likely executes Mimikatz (executes PowerShell scripts: ccd61.ps1 and Invoke-bypassuac), according to Arbor. Another command is u201cExecuteKLu201d; which likely executes a keylogger (executes Winit.exe and sends u201cStart Keylog Doneu201d message back to the C2), according to Arbor. u201cThe threat group that could be behind the original Shamoon attacks is still alive and well. They are definitely advancing the malware. While this DNS form of communication is not new, itu2019s far from a copy-and-paste type attack. This type of attack takes a dedicated programmer to think it through and put it together,u201d Schwarz said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658646cefc42b00293acc" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Motivation Mystery Behind WannaCry, ExPetr", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/motivation-mystery-behind-wannacry-expetr/126970/", "Date" : "July 21, 2017 , 12:31 pm", "Article" : "If two is a coincidence and three is a trend, maybe weu2019re not quite there yet in officially calling WannaCry and ExPetr a new movement among APT attacks. But for now, itu2019s close enough. Researchers are starting to examine the real motivations behind each global outbreak and whether these attacks truly signal a shift of direction in nation-state tactics. Ciscou2019s Midyear Cybersecurity Report seems to point in that direction, saying that attackers have destructive campaigns at scale in the works and that weakly protected and vulnerable connected devices are going to be vehicle for these attacks. Kaspersky Lab, meanwhile, compared WannaCry and ExPetr side-by-sideu2014both of which were spread entirely or in-part by the leaked NSA exploit EternalBlueu2014and warned that ransomware attacks are a pretty good shield for destructive attacks. u201cOne APT was rushed, opportunistic, not as technically capable as the other, while the other APT was practical, agile, and focused,u201d Kaspersky Lab concluded about its WannaCry-ExPetr tale-of-the-tape. u201cBut we are at the start of a trend emerging for this unusual tactic: APT camouflage destructive targeted activity behind ransomware.u201d ExPetr took that route, spreading ransomware that really wasnu2019t profit-motivated malware. Errors in the code prevented recovery of data encrypted by the malware, which in concert with the actions of a German email host that shut down the attackeru2019s email address left victims up a creek. It didnu2019t take long for researchers to conclude that ExPetr was instead a cloaked wiper attack foisted upon organizations in Ukraine primarily. Computers that were compromised by the malware had their Master Boot Record overwritten, rendering those machines lost forever, researchers said, adding that these were acts of sabotage and that collecting a few hundred dollars in Bitcoin from each victim was the furthest thing from the attackersu2019 minds. The difference between ExPetr and Shamoon, Destover or Black Energy is that those destructive attacks were much more aggressive and straightforward, Kaspersky Lab said. u201cThese components wereu00a0all wiper technology, delivered in a very intentional and destructive manner. Itu2019s interesting that these spectacles all coincided with large political events and interests,u201d Kaspersky Lab researchers said. u201cSo this new need to cloak their destructive activity or sabotage is an interesting shared change in tactics.u201d WannaCryu2019s well-documented killswitch was an odd choice to include in the ransomware, something that researchers still havenu2019t completely figured out. Kaspersky Lab said it shared private reports with subscribing customers that indicate the attackers behind WannaCry also used spearphishing emails with links to files hosted at file-sharing services. The alleged resumes and job inquiries were instead executable files that installed droppers and downloaders that were later used to install WannaCry. The attackers, alleged to be North Koreau2019s Lazarus Group, did not attempt to collect the Bitcoin paid to recover files, nor did they enhance any development in the malware with features intent to turning a profit. u201cThis sort of inexpensive, two month long activity also may tell us a bit about the actor, their capabilities, and their interests u2014 slow, practical, and somewhat hiding their interests in a very odd way,u201d Kaspersky Lab said. Ciscou2019s report, meanwhile, focused more on the co-opting of IoT devices in large-scale attacks. The Dyn DDoS attacks of last fall showed the way, Cisco postulates, and now empowered by ExPetr, more may be on the way. u201cThere are signs that new types of attacksu2014more sinister and destructive than campaigns of the pastu2014are in development. Adversaries are devising high-impact, wellplanned attacks that are designed to prevent any organization, big or small, from operating,u201d Cisco said. u201cThey know that no business has a contingency plan that outlines how to rebuild all their IT or OT from scratch, and they are determined to use that weakness to their advantage.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36589e6cefc42b00293b2a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "FBI Warns US Businesses of Possible Wiper Malware Attacks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/fbi-warns-us-businesses-of-possible-wiper-malware-attacks/109662/", "Date" : "December 2, 2014 , 8:01 am", "Article" : "The FBI issued a five-page flash warning yesterday urging American enterprises to be on the lookout for wiper malware. The alert, a Reuters report said, described some details about the malware but kept the victim anonymous. Itu2019s general practice for the FBI not to name victims in such alerts. The timing of the warning, however, is curious since it follows on the heels of the Sony Pictures breach in which a number of unreleased movies were leaked online and other systems were damaged and kept offline. Reuters said the description of the malware in the flash alert said the code overrides data on hard drives making them inoperable. Flash alerts are confidential and sent to businesses thought to be in harmu2019s way. Wiper malware has been used in a number of high-profile attacks, the most infamous being the Shamoon attack against Saudi oil company Aramco in August 2012. Shamoon left tens of thousands of workstations inoperable at the oil facility, but did not hamper oil production. The malware overwrites the Master Boot Record on a hard drive after it probes and steals data from the machine. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab followed bread crumbs left by some wiper malware used in attacks against businesses in Iran that eventually led the to the Flame malware. Flame is espionage malware, discovered in 2012 by researchers at CrySys Lab and Kaspersky Lab, in use against targets primarily in the Middle East. In early 2013, wiper malware was used in attacks against businesses and media outlets in South Korea, including major banks and the countryu2019s top television network. As in other similar attacks, the master boot record was overwritten, leaving behind a bricked computer. News of the attack against Sonyu2019s systems broke early last week before the Thanksgiving holiday. Systems were down and unusable, and screens popped up claiming that Sony had been u201cHacked By #GOP,u201d a hacker group named Guardians of Peace. The notice, alongside a red skull, went on to warn the company that it had u201cobtained all your internal data including your secrets and top secretsu201d and that it would release it unless the company obeyed the group. Since then, the hackers have been leaking data online, including a number of unreleased movies. Law enforcement is investigating, and yesterday, reports surfaced that North Korea could be behind the attacks because of Sonyu2019s upcoming film, u201cThe Interview.u201d The plot of the film, scheduled to be released on Dec. 25, revolves around a fictional attempt by the CIA to assassinate North Koreau2019s leader Kim Jong Un. When details regarding u201cThe Interviewu201d were first announced, back in June, a spokesman for the North Korean Foreign Ministry condemned the film, calling it a u201cblatant act of terrorism and war.u201d u201cIf the U.S. administration allows and defends the showing of the film, a merciless counter-measure will be taken,u201d the statement, via the republicu2019s Korean Central News Agency, read. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659166cefc42b00293bf5" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Attacks Against Critical Infrastructure Seek Operational Intelligence", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/attacks-against-critical-infrastructure-seek-operational-intelligence/111244/", "Date" : "February 24, 2015 , 2:22 pm", "Article" : "In most critical industriesu2014petroleum refineries or energy utilities, for exampleu2014there is very little in the way of proprietary information. Refining crude oil into gasoline requires science, not a secret sauce. Same goes for power generation. So why are advanced attackers using the same data exfiltration techniques deployed in APT-style attacks against IT against critical infrastructure, too? Intelligence gathering, says one expert who spoke last week during the Kaspersky Security Analyst Summit in Mexico. u201cTheyu2019re not taking financial data, or [mergers and acquisitions] data. Theyu2019re taking data that correlates back to the inner workings of the ICS infrastructure,u201d said Dewan Chowdhury, principal at MalCrawler, and a longtime ICS and SCADA security consultant. u201cThey want PLC blueprints that describe how refineries operate. They want .asr (ActionScript remote file) schemes for power distribution.u201d The end game, especially in the Middle East where Chowdhury has spent considerable time, is usually sabotage. The intelligence gathering assists hackers with the weaponization of malware and other attacks that will disrupt manufacturing, oil production or power distribution, and impact economies worldwide. u201cSabotage is by far the scariest thing. When we see sabotage in IT, itu2019s more like removing files or stealing databases,u201d Chowdhury said. u201cBut when you can impact something tangible and cause harm from a safety standpoint, thatu2019s scary.u201d The intelligence being stolen from ICS enables attacks such as one Chowdhury described in which a natural gas provider in the Middle East was experiencing pressure issues in its pipelines, yet the SCADA Masters looked legitimate and reported that all was well. A physical inspection, however, determined that a control room had been broken into and the subsequent investigation of ICS gear led to the discovery of a new service in the machineu2019s registry that was sending bogus data to the SCADA master while telling a remote terminal unit to malfunction. u201cIn order to really hit something like the power grid, you need to have information about the inner workings,u201d he said. u201cHow is the ASR set up? And when does quality control kick in at a refinery? This is the data you need to manipulate and weaponize this stuff.u201d In other words, this isnu2019t your daddyu2019s APT. And speaking of the power grid, the old chestnut about attackers shutting down the grid is a fallacy given the built-in redundancy. Instead, itu2019s an effective marketing and propaganda tool for politicians wanting to create urgency for new regulations or some other part of their agenda. u201cThe grid is designed around self-preservation. Itu2019s designed to protect itself from hurricanes, tornadoes and itu2019s a school of thought thatu2019s been there since day one,u201d Chowdhury said. u201cAnd itu2019s designed that if one part of the grid goes down, it doesnu2019t destroy the rest.u201d There have, however, been attacks against industry that have been destructive, the most prominent being the use of Shamoon wiper malware against Saudi Aramco that destroyed 30,000 workstations. Last November, the Industrial control System Cyber Emergency Response Team published an advisory warning operators of ICS vulnerabilities being exploited by the BlackEnergy malware, in particular the Sandworm APT gang. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab published a report at the time on BlackEnergy, in particular a number of plug-ins that had been discovered used in attacks used for stealing passwords, digital certificates and more. One of the more disturbing plug-ins reported on was called dstr, a command that overwrites and destroys hard drives with random data in the event the attackers suspected they had been found out. Chowdhury said heu2019d like to see a similar evangelical effort happen with ICS that began some years ago in software development circles when a concentrated effort was made to instill security from the outset of development lifecycles. u201cWeu2019re seeing the fruits of it now; a lot of layer 7 stuff is much harder to do compared to five years ago,u201d Chowdhury said, noting that with ICS, the real challenge may be cultural since engineers, not IT, run the shop. u201cThe cyber community needs to engage with engineers and give them the reality of it.u201d In some circles, for example, there still exists the mindset that itu2019s cheaper to deal with something post-incident rather than be proactive. Chowdhury said in electric utilities, for example, regulations put forth by the North America Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) provide utilities with not only a security checklist, but have led some to push vendors to include security controls such as IPsec or RADIUS installed on capacitor banks or electric voltage network regulators. u201cThatu2019s big,u201d Chowdhury said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659e26cefc42b00293d12" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "DHS Releases Destover Wiper Malware Indicators of Compromise", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/dhs-releases-destover-wiper-malware-indicators-of-compromise/110025/", "Date" : "December 22, 2014 , 12:43 pm", "Article" : "US-CERT released a not-so-cryptic advisory this weekend providing enterprises with indicators of compromise and detailed descriptions of the malware used against u201ca major entertainment company,u201d the Department of Homeland Securityu2019s description of Sony Pictures Entertainment. DHS describes in great detail a worm capable of moving its way through Windows Server Message Block network shares, conducting brute-force password attacks against protected network shares before dropping five other components, including destructive disk-crushing wiper malware. The advisory was finalized on Saturday, less than a day after the FBI officially pinned the blame for the attack on North Korea and President Barack Obama, during a year-end news conference, said Sony made a mistake in canceling the Christmas Day premiere of the comedy movie The Interview. u201cDue to the highly destructive functionality of this malware, an organization infected could experience operational impacts including loss of intellectual property and disruption of critical systems,u201d the US-CERT advisory said. The worm acts as a dropper, leaving behind according to DHS, a listening implant, a lightweight backdoor, a proxy tool, a destructive hard drive tool, and a destructive target cleaning tool. The worm contains two threads, US-CERT said, the first calls home and sends back log data while the second attempts to guess passwords on new Windows Server Message Block connections. The worm calls home every five minutes with log data, sending it to one of a handful of command and control servers, and seeks out other SMB shares over port 445. If the brute-force attack works, a file share is established and the malware components are dropped and run on the new host. Sony has been under siege since Nov. 24 when employees were greeted with a message on their workstations and threats from a hacker group calling themselves the Guardians of Peace. Since then, Sony has been subjected to numerous data leaks including unreleased movies and scripts made available online, to embarrassing email exchanges between executives, to the personal health care and contact information of employees released to Pastebin. Security researchers in the meantime tied samples of the Destover wiper malware used against Sony to the Shamoon attack against Saudi Aramco and the DarkSeoul attacks against financial institutions and media outlets in South Korea. The links between attacks against Sony and the previous two attacks were solid, said Kaspersky Lab researcher Kurt Baumgartner who noted similarities in the use of the commercially available Eldos RawDisk driver files in the Shamoon and Destover attacks. He also said that wiper drivers are maintained in the dropperu2019s resource section (in Shamoon and Destover), and disk data and the MBR are overwritten with encoded political messages (Shamoon and DarkSeoul). While Shamoon has been linked to Iran, DarkSeoul was tied to North Korea and it didnu2019t take long for investigators to make the same connection with Destover, despite doses of skepticism from security experts. The DHS advisory is the first deep dive into the malware components left behind by the dropper, including the two wiper components, one which destroys hard drive data on the first four physical drives it encounters as well as the master boot record with an additional program designed to do additional damage if a machine is rebooted. If a user has only user-level privileges rather than admin-level, the amount of damage is lessened. The advisory also provides insight into the backdoor, which can move files, system information, manipulate processes and also remote and command line code execution. u201cThis tool includes functionality to open ports in a victim hostu2019s firewall and take advantage of universal Plug and Play (UPNP) mechanisms to discover routers and gateway devices, and add port mappings, allowing inbound connections to victim hosts on Network Address Translated (NAT) private networks,u201d the advisory said. u201cThere are no callback domains associated with this malware since connections are inbound only on a specified port number.u201d In addition to IOCs, the DHS advisory also contains a list of seven command and control servers located in Thailand, Poland, Italy, Bolivia, Singapore, Cypress and the United States. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a026cefc42b00293d48" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Version of Destover Malware Signed by Stolen Sony Certificate", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-version-of-destover-malware-signed-by-stolen-sony-certificate/109777/", "Date" : "December 9, 2014 , 2:49 pm", "Article" : "Researchers have discovered a new version of the Destover malware that was used in the recent Sony Pictures Entertainment breaches, and in an ironic twist, the sample is signed by a legitimate certificate stolen from Sony. The new sample is essentiallyu00a0identical to an earlier version of Destover that was not signed. Destover has been used in a variety of attacks in recent years and itu2019s representative of the genre of malware that doesnu2019t just compromise machines and steal data, but can destroy information as well. The attackers who have claimed credit for the attack on Sony have spent the last couple of weeks gradually releasing large amounts of information stolen in the breach, including unreleased movies, personal data of Sony employees and sensitive security information such as digital certificates and passwords. The new, signed version of Destover appears to have been compiled in July and was signed on Dec. 5, the day after Kaspersky Lab published an analysis of the known samples of the malware. u201cIn all three cases: Shamoon, DarkSeoul and Destover, the groups claiming credit for their destructive impact across entire large networks had no history or real identity of their own,u201d Kurt Baumgartner of Kaspersky Labu2019s GReAT Team wrote in an analysis of the malware.u00a0 u201cAll attempted to disappear following their act, did not make clear statements but did make bizarre and roundabout accusations of criminal conduct, and instigated their destructive acts immediately after a politically-charged event that was suggested as having been at the heart of the matter.u201d The use of stolen digital certificates is a common tactic among malware authors and attackers looking for a way to get their creations past security systems. Many security technologies will trust files that are signed and let them pass by. u201cThe stolen Sony certificates (which were also leaked by the attackers) can be used to sign other malicious samples. In turn, these can be further used in other attacks. Because the Sony digital certificates are trusted by security solutions, this makes attacks more effective,u201d Kaspersky researchers wrote in an analysis of the new malware. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a466cefc42b00293dbd" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Research Paints Shamoon Creators as u2018Skillful Amateursu2019", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/research-paints-shamoon-creators-skillful-amateurs-091112/76995/", "Date" : "September 11, 2012 , 6:27 pm", "Article" : "Despite seemingly endless pontification, itu2019s still too early to definitively say whether thereu2019s a connection between the Shamoon malware and recent attacks on Middle Eastern oil firms, yet some of the attackersu2019 intentions may be getting clearer. Research suggests the creators behind the recent Shamoon malware werenu2019t high profile programmers but instead u201cskillful amateursu201d who may have had politically driven motivations. A new post by Kaspersky Lab researcher Dmitry Tarakanov on the firmu2019s Securelist blog helps break down the malwareu2019s technical details and shortcomings further. In one part of the analysis Tarakanov notes that the malwareu2019s author used a capital u201cSu201d instead of a lowercase u201cs.u201d This u201csilly erroru201d lead to a u201cspringu201d function failure and made it impossible for the malware to drop a file, let alone execute one. Elsewhere, two files, u201cf1.infu201d and u201cf2.inf,u201d are produced by the malware that pose a fragment of a JPEG of a burning U.S. flag u2013 the presence of the image should be easily noticed and according to Tarakanov was meant to be found. The image continues to populate itself, overwriting the hard drive with the JPEG, crudely filling the entire disk with data. u201cThe fact that they used a picture of a fragment of a burning US flag possibly shows that the motive of Shamoonu2019s authors is to create and use malware in a politically driven way. Moreover, they wished that their protest which was embedded into the malware would not go unnoticed,u201d Tarakanov wrote. Saudi Aramco, the worldu2019s largest oil company, was hit by a cyber attack in mid-August that wiped out information on 30,000 of the companyu2019s machines. Itu2019s been since theorized that Shamoon, the malware that overwrites the master boot record of infected machines after stealing data,u00a0was responsible yet Aramco officials claim investigation of the incident is ongoing. For more on the Shamoon research, head to Securelist. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a726cefc42b00293e0b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Some Signs Point to Shamoon as Malware in Aramco Attack", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/some-signs-point-shamoon-malware-aramco-attack-082212/76938/", "Date" : "August 22, 2012 , 2:40 pm", "Article" : "While researchers continue to dig into the Shamoon malware, looking for its origins and a complete understanding of its capabilities, a group calling itself the Cutting Sword of Justice is claiming responsibility for an attack on the massive Saudi oil company Aramco, which some experts believe employed Shamoon to destroy data on thousands of machines.u00a0 The attack on Aramco occurred on August 15, taking the main Web site of Saudi Aramco offline. Officials at the company said that the attack affected some of the companyu2019s workstations, but did not have any effect on oil production or on the main Aramco networks. The attackers claiming responsibility for the incident dispute that, saying that they deployed a destructive piece of malware that erased data on infected machines and then made them unusable. u201cAs previously said by hackers, about 30000 (30k) of clients and servers in the company were completely destroyed. Symantec, McAfee and Kaspersky wrote a detail analysis about the virus, good job.u00a0Hackers published the range of internal clients IPs which were found in the internal network and became one of the phases of the attack target,u201d the group said in a post on Pastebin shortly after the attack. The first indications that the attack might be connected to the Shamoon malware came in the groupu2019s original Pastebin post, which included a start time for the attack on Aramco, 11:08 a.m. local time in Saudi Arabia on August 15. Researchers who dissected Shamoon found that the same time was hard-coded into the Shamoon malware as a kind of checkpoint. The attackers claiming responsibility for the operation said that the attack ended a few hours after it began, but that plenty of damage was done. u201cIn the first step, an action was performed against Aramco company, as the largest financial source for Al-Saud regime. In this step, we penetrated a system of Aramco company by using the hacked systems in several countries and then sended a malicious virus to destroy thirty thousand computers networked in this company. The destruction operations began on Wednesday, Aug 15, 2012 at 11:08 AM (Local time in Saudi Arabia) and will be completed within a few hours,u201d the post says. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a746cefc42b00293e0f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Flaws in Shamoon Malware Reinforce Theory Itu2019s Not A Wiper Variant", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/flaws-shamoon-malware-reinforce-theory-its-not-wiper-variant-082212/76937/", "Date" : "August 22, 2012 , 12:40 pm", "Article" : "Some clumsy coding discovered during an analysis of the Shamoon malware has led researchers to conclude that it is probably not related to the Wiper malware that hit some Iranian networks recently and likely isnu2019t the work of serious programmers. A prime error appears to come from the main executable u2014 the dropper u2014 which in some systems is launched as a service to create a scheduled task, only the programming works incorrectly due to the date August 15, 2012 being hard-coded into the malware. Thus, if the current year is 2013 or later but the month is earlier than August, the malware reads the date as arriving before the August 2012 checkpoint value. u201cThis error indirectly confirms our initial conclusion that the Shamoon malware is not the Wiper malware that attacked Iranian systems,u201d wrote Kaspersky Lab researcher Dmitry Tarakanov in a Securelist post. u201cWiper is presumed to be a cyber-weapon and, if so, it should have been developed by a team of professionals. But experienced programmers would hardly be expected to mess up a date comparison routine.u201d u201cWiperu201d was the name researchers gave to malware that was discovered earlier this summer on some networks in Iran erasing data from infected machines. Like that malware, Shamoon steals data from infected computers before overwriting the master boot record, rendering compromised machines unbootable. But upon further analysis, researchers realized the two pieces of malware differed. In an earlier post by another Kaspersky Lab expert, Shamoon was considered an imitation of the earlier malware tied to energy systems. u201cIt is more likely that this is a copycat, the work of a script kiddies inspired by the story. Nowadays, destructive malware is rare; the main focus of cybercriminals is financial profit. Cases like the one here do not appear very often.u201d Tarakanov outlined evidence for such a conclusion by examining how the program runs in a typical 32-bit operating system. For instance, the program expects arguments that work like a list of IP addresses linked to computers targeted for infection. When the program runs without such arguments, it must rely on a service it installs locally, called a distributed link tracking server, to ensure the malware reboots and changes workstation configurations whenever the operating system loads. u201cThere is an easier way to force the OS to run a service at startup u2013 just set up the appropriate option of a particular service,u201d Tarakanov wrote. u201cMoreover, u2018TrkSvru2019 gets created by malware with that option adjusted to start automatically. Why the author followed this method, with dependencies, is difficult to understand.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a796cefc42b00293e18" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Iran CERT Reports New Data-Wiping Malware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/iran-cert-reports-new-data-wiping-malware-121712/77321/", "Date" : "December 17, 2012 , 4:22 pm", "Article" : "Computer systems in Iran are being targeted by a new strain of malware that is capable of wiping disk partitions clean of files. Security researchers are calling the attacks simplistic, yet effective. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab said the malware launches only on pre-determined dates and will delete all files on drives D through I. It also deletes user profiles and will wipe all files on the computeru2019s desktop. u201cThis is an extremely simplistic attack,u201d Kaspersky Lab researcher Roel Schouwenberg said. u201cThe attacker wrote some BAT files and then used a BAT2EXE tool to turn them into Windows PE files.u201d Once a partition has been wiped clean, the malware will run the chkdsk command against the machine to check the status of the infected drive, perhaps to make the attack look like a system or hardware failure. The list of dates is as follows: Kaspersky researchers continue to examine the files; they are being detected as Win.32.Maya.a. Schouwenberg said there have been no samples collected from the wild. The malware was reported Sunday by Iranu2019s Maher Center, the countryu2019s CERT organization. u201cIt is not considered to be widely distributed,u201d Maheru2019s alert said. u201cThis targeted attack is simple in design and it is not any similarity to the other sophisticated targeted attacks.u201d The Maher Center identified the dropper as GrooveMonitor.exe, as well as four other executable files. Schouwenberg also said there is no immediate connection to any previous such attacks. u201cOther than the geographic region, there doesnu2019t seem to be any commonality with this file-deleting malware and the previous attacks weu2019ve seen,u201d Schouwenberg said. u201cEven though the code is extremely simplistic, it looks like the author managed to slip in a mistake by not deleting a line of old code.u201d The giveaway is a 16-bit SLEEP file that wonu2019t run on 64-bit Windows machines. u201cThis is as basic as it gets,u201d Schouwenberg said. u201cBut if it was effective, that doesnu2019t matter. If it wasnu2019t clear already, the era of cyber sabotage has arrived.u201d Data-wiping malware has been targeting Middle Eastern organizations for some time. The most destructive was Shamoon, which attacked 30,000 workstations at the Aramco oil facility in Saudi Arabia. Shamoon not only destroyed data on the computers it infected but was able to infect and overwrite the master boot record, rendering the workstations useless. No oil production, however, was affected by the attack. Shamoon also stole data from the computers it infected and connected via a backdoor to a third-party system, using another machine on the Aramco network as a proxy. Researchers at Kaspersky looking at some of the first samples of Shamoon noticed a few strings of code that referenced the Wiper malware, though no conclusive connection was ever made between the two. Wiper surfaced in April, attacking computers in Iran and destroying data on those computers. As with this latest malware, Wiper was wiping certain disk partitions. The analysis of Wiper led Kaspersky researchers to discover the Flame malware. Wiper was extremely difficult to trace because it was so destructive to the machines it infected. What traces that did remain were enough to be able to recover a copy of the registry hive. The researchers found files with similar names to those used by Duqu and eventually learned that the wiping pattern used by Wiper was similar to other destructive pieces of malware. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a866cefc42b00293e2f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Shamoon Malware Steals Data, Overwrites MBR", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/shamoon-malware-steals-data-overwrites-mbr-081612/76922/", "Date" : "August 16, 2012 , 11:27 pm", "Article" : "A new piece of malware known as Shamoon that has the ability to destroy files on infected machines and overwrite the master boot record has researchers scratching their heads, wondering what the toolu2019s purpose might be and why the attackers behind it would destroy infected PCs. There are some indications that the malware could be related to Wiper, but researchers believe this is a red herring. The Shamoon malware came to light on Thursday when researchers at Kasperksy Lab said that they had analyzed samples that included some odd and puzzling characteristics. One module in the malware has a string with a name that includes u201cwiperu201d as part of it, something that could point to a connection to the Wiper or Skywiper malware discovered earlier this year. Wiper was erasing files from disks, but it doesnu2019t appear that the two are connected at this point. u201cOur opinion, based on researching several systems attacked by the original Wiper, is that it is not. The original u201cWiperu201d was using certain service names (u201cRAHDu2026u201d) together with specific filenames for its drivers (u201c%temp%~dxxx.tmpu201d) which do not appear to be present in this malware. Additionally, the original Wiper was using a certain pattern to wipe disks which again is not used by this malware,u201d Kaspersky researchers said. However, researchers at Seculert who looked at Shamoon found that the malware not only has the ability to destroy data on infected PCs, but it also can overwrite the machineu2019s MBR, making the PC essentially useless. They discovered that before Shamoon executes its destructive instructions, it collects data from various files on the infected machine and then feeds that data to another infected PC on the same internal network. Itu2019s a confusing routine, but there may be a reason for it. u201cThe attacker took control of an internal machine connected directly to the internet, and used that machine as a proxy to the external Command-and-Control (C2) server. Through the proxy, the attacker infected the other internal machines, which were probably not connected directly to the internet,u201d Aviv Raff, Seculert CTO, said in his analysis. After the attackers got whatever information they wanted off of the Shamoon-infected PCs, they then executed the instructions to delete the data on the hard disk and overwrite the MBR. Shamoon then communicates the results back to the command-and-control server through the internal proxy, Seculert said. The intent of the attackers behind the Shamoon malware isnu2019t too clear at this point, but the tool is collecting data from infected machines and sending off to parts unknown. That puts it in the league of the cyber espionage tools that have become the favored weapons of attackers of late. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a976cefc42b00293e4e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Aramco Hack Aimed at Curbing Oil Production", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/aramco-hack-aimed-curbing-oil-production-121012/77296/", "Date" : "December 10, 2012 , 7:12 pm", "Article" : "An August attack on the Saudi Arabian national oil company, Aramco, was reportedly launched in order to hinder oil production at the worldu2019s most valuable company, according to a report published in the New York Times yesterday. The attack damaged some 30,000 company workstations but failed to achieve it primary goal, which, according to Abdullah al-Saadan, the companyu2019s vice president of corporate planning, was to stop the flow of oil and gas from Aramco to local and international markets. Despite causing no perceptible interruption to Aramcou2019s output, which accounts for a tenth of the worldu2019s oil supply according to the Times, the attack was destructive enough that it prompted the company to take its internal network down and its main website offline. These were restored after more than a week of downtime. A little known hacker group calling itself the u201cCutting Sword of Justiceu201d took credit for the attack on the text sharing site Pastebin. They claimed that the attack was in retaliation for Saudi Arabiau2019s support of u201catrocities in various countries around the world.u201d A number of security experts and researchers believed that a piece of malware called Shamoon that emerged around the same time was used in the attack. The toolu2019s ability to destroy files on infected machines and overwrite the master boot record had researchers scratching their heads about the virusu2019s potential use until news of the hack on Aramco emerged. " }n"
%%%Careto2014——2017
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4006cefc41c844ab266" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Experts Find 2007 Variant of Malware Linked to French Intelligence", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/experts-find-2007-variant-malware-linked-french-intelligence", "Date" : "September 07, 2017", "Article" : "Researchers at Palo Alto Networks have come across a 2007 variant of Babar, a piece of malware believed to have been developed by a French intelligence agency. The activities of the cyber espionage group known as the Animal Farm came to light in March 2014, when a French publication released a series of slides from Edward Snowden. The slides belonged to Canada's Communications Security Establishment (CSE) and they detailed an espionage campaign dubbed u201cOperation Snowglobe.u201d Further analysis by various security firms revealed that the Animal Farm group had been using several pieces of malware whose names have been inspired by cartoon characters, including Babar, Dino, Casper and Bunny. Other malware families used by the threat actor are NBot and Tafacalou. The group, previously believed to have been active since at least 2009, has targeted government organizations, military contractors, private firms, media companies, activists, and humanitarian aid organizations in many countries around the world. Back in 2015, Kaspersky mentioned that it had found evidence of some Animal Farm malware being developed as far back as 2007, but the company did not share any details. Palo Alto Networks now says it has found a 2007 version of Babar, also known as Snowball. Researchers pointed out that the previously analyzed samples of this malware had dated back to 2011. u201cAnalysing historical malware samples helps us learn about its set of features and technical capabilities. This helps us compare a tool used by one adversary to that used by similarly adversaries at that time,u201d Palo Altou2019s Dominik Reichel said in a blog post. Researchers analyzed a loader with a compilation timestamp of 11/09/2007 11:37:36 PM and a payload apparently compiled 10 seconds later. While timestamps can be modified, experts believe these are genuine. This version of Babar was capable of obtaining information about the compromised machine, rebooting or shutting down the infected system, downloading files, and killing arbitrary processes. When obtaining information on the default Web browser, the malware uses a method that does not work on Chrome, which Google released in 2008, further indicating that the samples were truly developed in 2007. Researchers also pointed out that the malware had abused the official website of the Permanent Council of Accounting of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (cpcc-rdc.org) for command and control (C&C) communications. Experts also found a design flaw that resulted in configuration data that should have been encrypted to be accessible in clear text, which is surprising considering that the malware was developed by a sophisticated actor. Code and structure analysis suggests that the Casper malware used by Animal Farm is based on this version of Babar. Overall, Palo Alto Networks believes this piece of malware is u201conly averageu201d compared to other malware created at that time by threat groups believed to be backed by nation states, such as Regin or Careto. The theory that a French intelligence agency is behind the Animal Farm is based on information from the CSE slides, the targeted entities, language and regional settings, and various strings found in the malware code. Palo Alto Networksu2019 analysis also found that the loader and the main payload for the 2007 version of Babar had the resource language ID set to 1036, which corresponds to French. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d62f6cefc42b0029365c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "The Mask, a malware campaign that remained undetected for 7 Years", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2014/02/the-mask-malware-campaign-that-remained.html", "Date" : "2014-02-11T00:59:00-11:00", "Article" : "A Sophisticated cyber spying operation, u2018The Masku2019, that has been under the mask for about 7 years targeting approximately 31 countries, has now been u2018unmaskedu2019 by researchers at Kaspersky Labs. The Researchers believe that the program has been operational since 2007 and is seems to be sophisticated nation-state spying tool that targeted government agencies and diplomatic offices and embassies before it was disclosed last month. In the unveiling document published by Kaspersky, they found more than 380 unique victims, including Government institutions, diplomatic offices/embassies, private companies, research institutions, activists etc. The name "Mask" comes from the Spanish slang word "Careto" ("Ugly Face" or u201cMasku201d) which the authors included in some of the malware modules. Developers of the u2018Masku2019 aka u2018Caretou2019 used complex tool-set which includes highly developed malware, bootkit, rootkit etc. that has the ability to sniff encryption keys, VPN configuration, SSH keys and RDP file via intercept network traffic, keystrokes, Skype conversation, PGP keys, WI-Fi traffic, screen capturing, monitoring all file operations, that makes it unique and dangerous and more sophisticated than DUQU malware. The malware targets files having an extension: *.AKF, *.ASC, *.AXX, *.CFD, *.CFE, *.CRT, *.DOC, *.DOCX, *.EML, *.ENC, *.GMG, *.GPG, *.HSE, *.KEY, *.M15, *.M2F, *.M2O, *.M2R, *.MLS, *.OCFS, *.OCU, *.ODS, *.ODT, *.OVPN, *.P7C, *.P7M, *.P7Z, *.PAB, *.PDF, *.PGP, *.PKR, *.PPK, *.PSW, *.PXL, *.RDP, *.RTF, *.SDC, *.SDW, *.SKR, *.SSH, *.SXC, *.SXW, *.VSD, *.WAB, *.WPD, *.WPS, *.WRD, *.XLS, *.XLSX. Victims of this malware found in: Algeria, Argentina, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Egypt, France, Germany, Gibraltar, Guatemala, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Tunisia, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States and Venezuela. The malware remains untraceable for about 7 years and was able to infect Mac OS X version, Linux, Windows, iPad/iPhone and android running devices. According to the researchers, the Mask Malware was designed to infect the 32- and 64-bit Windows versions, Mac OS X and Linux versions, but researchers believe that possibly there may be more versions for Android and iPhones (Apple iOS) platforms. In its main binary a CAB file having shlink32 and shlink64 dll files are found during the research from which the malware extract one of them, depending upon the architecture of the victimu2019s machine and install it as objframe.dll. It includes the most sophisticated backdoor SGH, which is designed to perform a large surveillance function and except this it has DINNER module which gets executed via APC remote calls and reload u2018chefu2019 module responsible for network connectivity and u2018waiteru2019 modules responsible for all logical operations. Another backdoor called SBD (Shadowinteger's Backdoor) which uses open source tools like netcat is included in the malware. To infect Linux versions, Mozilla Firefox plugin u201caf_l_addon.xpiu201d was used and was hosted on u201clinkconf[dot]netu201d Spear phishing, a favorite attack used by most cyber attackers like SEA, was used to distribute this malware. Users were lured to click some malicious websites that contain a number of exploits to compromise their systems. Kaspersky research found linkconf.net, redirserver.net and swupdt.com as hosting exploits. These websites donu2019t infect the visitor, instead attacker hosts the exploit in a folder which cannot be navigated using the web, but they direct the link to that exploit in the phishing email. To mask the attack into real, attackers use a fake SSL certificate of some unknown company TecSystem Ltd valid since 2010 and sometimes they also use subdomains to mask the attack appear more real; in which they simulate newspaper subsections that may include SPAINu2019s main Newspaper, The Washington Post and The Register etc. Kaspersky had performed this research with more interest due to the reason that the malware has tried to exploit the vulnerability in its product i.e. Workstation products prior version 6.0.4.*, and KAV/KIS 8.0 versions. u201cIn case of the Careto implant, the C&C communication channel is protected by two layers of encryption. The data received from the C&C server is encrypted using a temporary AES key, which is also passed with the data and is encrypted with an RSA key. The same RSA key is used to encrypt the data that is sent back to the C&C server. This double encryption is uncommon and shows the high level of protection implemented by the authors of the campaign.u201d they said. During the research and investigation of this malware, CC servers were found down, which shows that attacker group was monitoring all aspects related to the malware activity. Since there are no identified patterns in these attacks and who is behind these activities is yet a matter of investigation for the researchers out there." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36576c6cefc42b00293955" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "The Ethics and Morality Behind APT Reports", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/the-ethics-and-morality-behind-apt-reports/121157/", "Date" : "October 7, 2016 , 11:00 am", "Article" : "DENVERu2014Investigations into state-sponsored APT campaigns are much more than black-and-white research into malware, exploits and zero-days. Behind the scenes, these can be geopolitical powder kegs that require moral examinations into the ethics of publishing public reports that could expose tools that may be used by nations to take down terrorism operations or large-scale criminal investigations. Very few of these discussions are held in public, but on Thursday at Virus Bulletin during a brisk 30-minute panel, some of the high-level touchpoints were covered and some raw emotion exposed. One of the few things that panelists Morgan Marquis-Boire, a researcher, journalist and director of security at First Look Media, and researcher Brian Bartholomew of Kaspersky Lab agreed upon was that itu2019s not enough to just report facts such as indicators of compromise and investigate malware and exploit behavior. u201cIf you do that, it means that you start capping your investigation to malware in a certain constraining box,u201d Marquis-Boire said, citing an analogy often used by Kaspersky Labu2019s Costin Raiu, who talks about malware research as a form of archaeology. u201cYou try to figure out what this animal was doing, what did it eat, where did it graze. When you investigate malware and you have a binary, by simply saying u2018Hereu2019s what it doesu2019 means that there is a whole stack of research related to this that youu2019re electing not to do.u201d Bartholomew, a former U.S. government red-teamer, and Marquis-Boire, a researcher who has exposed numerous oppressive-government surveillance operations for Citizen Lab and the EFF, came at Thursdayu2019s discussion with diverse experiences. As part of Kaspersky Labu2019s Global Research and Analysis Team, Bartholomew is part of an organization that has disclosed the espionage activities of high-profile APTs, including the Equation Group, DarkHotel, Careto and many others. Most of these groups are government-backed, and the public reports exposing their activities put a number of zero-day vulnerabilities and exploits out of commission. But there are times, such as possibly outing counterterrorism operations, when the decision to publicize isnu2019t as clearcut as it has been in publishing cyberespionage reports. u201cWe may look at malware, crack it open and see the victimology and see that 99 percent of users are visiting extremist forums and this is how theyu2019re getting infected and it seems to be a targeted campaign,u201d Bartholomew explained. u201cAt what point are we as researchers in position to make that judgment as to whether visiting extremist forums is bad? Itu2019s one thing to detect malware, but writing a report for the world to read is a completely different thing. To me, itu2019s a little irresponsible to dump things out there if thereu2019s a high suspicion this may be targeting bad people.u201d Marquis-Boire countered that some governments, however, donu2019t have the same standards for characterizing groups as terrorists. One unnamed government, he said, labeled a group of bloggers as a terror group because of their use of a particular phrase related to attaining freedom by any means necessary. u201cIt was enough for that particular government to decide they were terrorists,u201d he said. u201cLabeling a group as terrorists can be expedient for governments, especially if they donu2019t like a group.u201d Much of the debate was hardly clear-cut. For example, most nations donu2019t have the equivalent of the First Amendment and dissent is likely illegal in these geographies. u201cThere are places where dissent is illegal and you could get painted as a terrorist. I donu2019t have a moral problem helping these people out because I think their laws are [crap],u201d Marquis-Boire said. u201cThatu2019s a moral judgment Iu2019m making. What we publish comes down to whether itu2019s in the public interest. We donu2019t make evaluations about whether weu2019re going to blow up legitimate government operations or not. Itu2019s about whatu2019s in the public interest.u201d The fact remains that, as Marquis-Boire pointed out, the industry standard is that itu2019s acceptable to publish reports that expose cyberespionage, but the waters are murky when it comes to outing counterterrorism. Bartholomew said that governmentsu2019 habit of purchasing spyware from groups such as the Hacking Team or the NSO Group behind the Trident iOS vulnerabilities, are adding to the murk. u201cWhy do we accept publishing of a traditional cyberespionage collection operation?u201d Bartholomew asked. u201cDo we accept counterterrorism as well?u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658b16cefc42b00293b49" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Regin Cyberespionage Platform Also Spies on GSM Networks", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/regin-cyberespionage-platform-also-spies-on-gsm-networks/109539/", "Date" : "November 24, 2014 , 10:09 am", "Article" : "Researchers have uncovered a complex espionage platform reminiscent of Duqu that has been used since at least 2008 not only to spy on and extract email and documents from government agencies, research institutions and banks, but also one that targets GSM network operators in order to launch additional attacks. Kaspersky Lab published a report this morning that explains this aspect of the Regin attack platform, which has been detected on the Windows computers of 27 victimized organizations in 14 countries, most of those in Asia and the Middle East. In addition to political targets, Kaspersky Lab researchers identified Belgian cryptographer Jean Jacques Quisquater as one of its specific victims, along with an unnamed research institution that was also infected with other dangerous espionage malware including Mask/Careto, Turla, Itaduke and Animal Farm. Initial infection vectors are unknown, but Kaspersky Lab speculates that in a few instances, the attackers used a browser zero-day exploit in order to sit in a man-in-the-middle position and siphon traffic from a victim. u201cFor some of the victims we observed tools and modules designed for lateral movement. So far we have not encountered any exploits. The replication modules are copied to remote computers using Windows administrative shares and then executed,u201d researchers wrote. u201cObviously this techu00adnique requires administrative privileges inside the victimu2019s network. In several cases the infected machines were also Windows domain controllers. Targeting of system administrators via web-based exploits is a simple way of achieving immediate administrative access to the entire network.u201d APT-style attacks are characterized by their persistence and ability to quietly steal electronic documents, spread laterally on a network and launch additional attacks on command. The GSM aspect to Regin makes it particularly noteworthy and dangerous, researchers said.  u201cIn todayu2019s world, we have become too dependent on mobile phone networks which rely on ancient communication protocols with little or no security available for the end user,u201d said Costin Raiu, Director of Global Research and Analysis Team at Kaspersky Lab. u201cAlthough all GSM networks have mechanisms embedded which allow entities such as law enforcement to track suspects, other parties can hijack this ability and abuse it to launch different attacks against mobile users.u201d GSM is short for Global System for Mobile Communications and is the default standard for mobile networks used by most of the worldu2019s telecoms. The attackers were able to steal credentials from a internal GSM Base Station Controller belonging to a large telecom operator that gave them access to GSM cells in that particular network, Kaspersky Lab said. Base Station Controllers manage calls as they move along a mobile network, allocating resources and mobile data transfers. u201cThis means that they could have had access to information about which calls are processed by a particular cell, redirect these calls to other cells, activate neighbor cells and perform other offensive activities,u201d Kaspersky Lab researchers wrote. u201cAt the present time, the attackers behind Regin are the only ones known to have been capable of doing such operations.u201d Kaspersky researchers published excerpts from a Base Station Controller log dating back to 2008 that contained commands that would allow a third party to manipulate call forwarding settings, activate or stop cells in a GSM network and add cell neighbors to a network among other commands. The log also contained credentials belonging to engineering accounts. Backdoors were also established with the attackersu2019 command infrastructure; communication was heavily encrypted and complex, lessening the chances it would be observed. Machines on a network edge act as a bridge between victims inside the network and the command infrastructure. u201cMost victims communicate with another machine in their own internal network through various protocols as specified in the config file. These include HTTP and Windows network pipes,u201d the Kaspersky report says. u201cThe purpose of such a complex infrastructure is to achieve two goals: to give attackers access deep into the network, potentially bypassing air gaps; and to restrict as much as possible the traffic to the C&C.u201d Regin is deployed in five stages giving the attackers deep access to a victimized network with each stage loading subsequent parts of the attack. Modules in the first stage are the only executable stored on the victimu2019s computer, and theyu2019re all signed with phony digital certificates purporting to be from Microsoft and Broadcom. Details on each stage, as well as indicators of compromise were published by Kaspersky Lab in its report. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659286cefc42b00293c15" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Free Tool Looks for HackingTeam Malware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/free-tool-looks-for-hackingteam-malware/113850/", "Date" : "July 20, 2015 , 11:22 am", "Article" : "UPDATEu2013Researchers at Rook Security have released a new tool that looks for HackingTeam malware on target systems, and also have published a set of indicators of compromise to help organizations look for signs of an infection from the intrusion software. The HackingTeam Remote Control System is the companyu2019s flagship surveillance and intrusion platform. It sold the system to government agencies and law enforcement customers, but part of the fallout from the breach earlier this month was the exposure of HackingTeamu2019s customersu2019 names, some of which are associated with oppressive regimes. In the weeks since the attack on HackingTeam, experts have set about looking for ways to find the companyu2019s malware tools on potentially compromised systems. The tool that the researchers from Rook, a securityu00a0company based in Indianapolis, is called Milano and is designed to automate the process of finding the HackingTeam malware. Milano is a free tool and has two separate modes: quick scan and deep scan. The tool looks for hashes of known HackingTeam files and Rook officials said a quick scan can run in a few seconds, while a deep scan can take up to an hour depending upon the system. Rook has been working with the FBIu2019s Cyber Task Force in Indianapolis to analyze the HackingTeam tools and exploits, as well. u201cThis breach has been very unique in nature and challenging for security technology vendors to obtain code samples to create signatures and patches, thereby leaving scores of systems potentially vulnerable to nefarious actors seeking to weaponize Hacking Teamu2019s once proprietary tools,u201d said J.J. Thompson, CEO of Rook. u201cAfter our Intelligence Team quickly deduced how the leaked code could be weaponized and used for harm, we immediately put a team in place to identify, analyze, and detect malicious files located in this data.u201d Meanwhile, Facebook has released an update for its Oquery tool that, among other things, can find the OS X backdoor used by the HackingTeam software. u201cAttackers continue to develop and deploy Mac OS X backdoors. Weu2019ve seen this with Flashback, IceFog, Careto, Adwind/Unrecom, and most recently, HackingTeam. The OS X-attacks pack has queries that identify known variants of malware, ranging from advanced persistent threats (APT) to adware and spyware. If a query in this pack produces results, it means a host in your Mac fleet is compromised with malware. This pack is high signal and should result in close to zero false positives,u201d Javier Marcos de Prado of Facebook said in a blog post. Researchers around the world have been analyzing the HackingTeam platform, tools, and exploits since the company was breached two weeks ago. In addition to emails and documents, much of the source code for the RCS platform was posted online, and some researchers have been able to get it up and running on their own systems. Company executives have said that they are in the process of building an entirely new version of RCS, to be released at an unspecified date. u201cThis is a total replacement for the existing u2018Galileou2019 system, not simply an update,u201d HackingTeam COO David Vincenzetti said.u00a0u201cOf course, it will include new elements to protect systems and data considering the impact of the attack against HackingTeam.u201d Tom Gorup, security operations manager at Rook, said the Milano tool will continue to evolve as more information is discovered. u201cRight now thereu2019s about ninety files that it looks for, but that will go up as we go along,u201d Gorup said. This story was updated on July 20 to include the information on Facebooku2019s tool. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659b06cefc42b00293cca" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New u2018Masku2019 APT Campaign Called Most Sophisticated Yet", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-mask-apt-campaign-called-most-sophisticated-yet/104148/", "Date" : "February 10, 2014 , 1:03 pm", "Article" : "PUNTA CANAu2013A group of high-level, nation-state attackers has been targeting government agencies, embassies, diplomatic offices and energy companies with a cyber-espionage campaign for more than five years that researchers say is the most sophisticated APT operation theyu2019ve seen to date. The attack, dubbed the Mask, or u201cCaretou201d (Spanish for u201cUgly Faceu201d or u201cMasku201d) includes a number of unique components and functionality and the group behind it has been stealing sensitive data such as encryption and SSH keys and wiping and deleting other data on targeted machines. The Mask APT campaign has been going on since at least 2007 and it is unusual in a number of ways, not the least of which is that it doesnu2019t appear to have any connection to China. Researchers say that the attackers behind the Mask are Spanish-speaking and have gone after targets in more than 30 countries around the world. Many, but not all, of the victims are in Spanish-speaking countries, and researchers at Kaspersky Lab, who uncovered the campaign, said that the attackers had at least one zero-day in their arsenal, along with versions of the Mask malware for Mac OS X, Linux, and perhaps even iOS and Android. u201cThese guys are better than the Flame APT group because of the way that they managed their infrastructure,u201d said Costin Raiu, head of the Global Research Analysis Team at Kaspersky. u201cThe speed and professionalism is beyond that of Flame or anything else that weu2019ve seen so far.u201d  Raiu revealed the details of the Mask attack campaign during the Kaspersky Security Analyst Summit here Monday. Interestingly, the Kaspersky researchers first became aware of the Mask APT group because they saw the attackers exploiting a vulnerability in one of the companyu2019s products. The attackers found a bug in an older version of a Kaspersky product, which has been patched for several years, and were using the vulnerability as part of their method for hiding on compromised machines. Raiu said that the attackers had a number of different tools at their disposal, including implants that enabled them to maintain persistence on victimsu2019 machines, intercept all TCP and UDP communications in real time and remain invisible on the compromised machine.u00a0Raiu said all of the communications between victims and the C&C servers were encrypted. The attackers targeted victims with spear-phishing emails that would lead them to a malicious Web site where the exploits were hosted. There were a number of exploits on the site and they were only accessible through the direct links the attackers sent the victims. One of the exploits the attackers used was for CVE-2012-0773, an Adobe Flash vulnerability that was discovered by researchers at VUPEN, the French firm that sells exploits and vulnerability information to private customers. The Flash bug was an especially valuable one, as it could be used to bypass the sandbox in the Chrome browser.u00a0Raiu said the exploit for this Flash bug never leaked publicly. On Monday, Chaouki Bekrar, CEO of VUPEN, said that the exploit used by the Mask crew was not the one developed by VUPEN. u201cThe exploit is not our, probably it was found by diffing the patch released by Adobe after Pwn2Own,u201d Bekrar wrote on Twitter. While most APT campaigns tend to target Windows machines, the Mask attackers also were interested in compromising OS X and Linux machines, as well as some mobile platforms. Kaspersky researchers found Windows and OS X samples and some indications of a Linux versions, but donu2019t have a Linux sample. There also is some evidence that there may be versions for both iOS and Android. Raiu said there was one victim in Morocco who was communicating with the C&C infrastructure over 3G. Kaspersky researchers have sinkholed about 90 of the C&C domains the attackers were using, and the operation was shut down last week within a few hours of a short blog post the researchers published with a few details of the Mask campaign. Raiu said that after the post was published, the Mask operators rolled up their campaign within about four hours. However, Raiu said that the attackers could resurrect the operation without much trouble. u201cThey could come back very quickly if they wanted,u201d he said. " }n"
%%%CryptoLocker2013——2017
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c3b16cefc41c844ab1e2" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "RIG Exploit Kit Used to Deliver "Cryptowall" Ransomware", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/rig-exploit-kit-used-deliver-cryptowall-ransomware", "Date" : "June 06, 2014", "Article" : "The RIG Exploit Kit, which first emerged on cybercrime forums in April, is successfully leveraging malicious advertising techniques (malvertising) to distribute a piece of file-encrypting ransomware dubbed Cryptowall.  According tou00a0Cisco, a high amount of traffic associated with the RIG Exploit Kit has been seen using malvertising to perform drive-by download attacks on the visitors of popular, legitimate websites. Cisco said that on April 24 it began to identify malicious traffic related to the attacks, whic so far has been coming from over 90 domains. According to Cisco, that attacks have been found using landing pages that host exploits for Java, Flash and Silverlight. Cisco researchers highlight the fact that attackers are increasingly using Microsoft Silverlight exploits in their operations, with such exploits being included in packs like Fiesta and Angler as well.  If the exploit is successful, the payload, namely the Cryptowall ransomware, is downloaded onto victimsu2019 computers. Once it infects a system, Cryptowall, which is similar to the notorious CryptoLocker, encrypts local files and instructs users to pay a ransom in order to recover them.  Based on the requests for RIG landing pages, experts have been able to identify the websites hosting the malicious ads. The list of affected sites includes ebay.in, altervista.org, apps.facebook.com, wiki.answers.com, theguardian.com and go.com. u00a0Most of the impacted users are located in the United States (42%) and the United Kingdom (31%).  Until May 22, cybercriminals used both compromised legitimate websites and newly-registered domains to host the landing pages. Many of the hijacked domains are running WordPress, and theyu2019ve been most likely compromised through brute-force attacks, rather than vulnerabilities in the platform, Cisco noted.  u201cUsing existing legitimate sites to host the EK alleviates the need to create and maintain a dedicated domain infrastructure, and mitigates some of the problems associated with doing so: registering new domains, randomizing naming, using multiple email addresses, etc., in order to avoid easy attribution,u201d Ciscou2019s Andrew Tsonchev explained in a blog post.  After May 22, only newly-registered domain names have been utilized. Starting with this date, the attackers also stopped using only paths ending in u201cproxy.php,u201d most likely in an effort to avoid detection, experts said. In May, Kahu Security reported that the RIG Exploit Kit was being rented for $60 per day or $300 per week. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c3bd6cefc41c844ab1f8" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Gameover Zeus, CryptoLocker Hit in Massive Takedown Operation", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/gameover-zeus-cryptolocker-hit-massive-takedown-operation", "Date" : "June 02, 2014", "Article" : "Law enforcement officials and security experts teamed up to beat back the Gameover Zeus botnet. A federal grand jury in Pittsburgh has hit Evgeniy Mikhailovich Bogachev, 30, of Anapa, Russian Federation, with a 14-count indictment in connection with his alleged role as the administrator of the Gameover Zeus botnet. The indictment charges him with conspiracy, computer hacking, wire fraud, bank fraud and money laundering. He was also charged with bank fraud in Omaha in relation to his involvement with another Zeus variant known as 'Jabber Zeus.' A separate civil injunction application filed by the U.S. in federal court in Pittsburgh accuses Bogachev of being the leader of a cyber-gang based in Russia and Ukraine that is responsible for both Gameover Zeus and Cryptolocker, a notorious piece of ransomwareu00a0that hasu00a0been spread by the Gameover Zeus network. The moves are the result of an international investigation that involved the FBI, Europol and a number of software companies including Microsoft, Dell SecureWorks and CrowdStrike. "GameOver Zeus is spread through drive-by downloads, where the cybercriminals create a website that downloads malware onto any unprotected computer that visits that site," blogged Richard Domingues Boscovich, assistant general counsel for Microsoft's Digital Crimes Unit. "It is also distributed through the Cutwail spam botnet via phishing, where cybercriminals send counterfeit emails that appear to be legitimate communications from well-known businesses and organizations." "The botnet automatically begins key logging when a user of an infected computer types into the Web browser, unwittingly giving cybercriminals access to passwords and private account information," he added. "The infected computer sends stolen data to the botnetu2019s C&C server, and stores it there for later use by the criminal." Since its appearance 2011, Gameover has gone through a number of adaptations meant to make it more lethal, including the addition of a peer-to-peer component. Earlier this year, the malware was updated with a low-level driver designed to stop the malware from being easily removed and to thwart efforts at killing the Gameover process. According to Dell SecureWorks, the Gameover Zeus was the most prevalent piece of banking malware detected by the company in 2013. That particular Trojan represented 38 percent of the company's detections last year. The effort to dismantle Gameover Zeus also hit Cryptolocker, which began appearing about September 2013. According to the U.S. Department of Justice, security researchers have estimated that as of April 2014, the ransomware had infected more than 234,000 machines, approximately half of which are in the United States. "This operationu00a0disruptedu00a0a globalu00a0botnetu00a0that had stolen millions from businesses and consumers as wellu00a0as a complexu00a0ransomware scheme thatu00a0secretlyu00a0encryptedu00a0hard drivesu00a0and thenu00a0demanded payments for giving usersu00a0access to theiru00a0ownu00a0files and data," said Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole. "Weu00a0succeeded inu00a0disabling Gameover Zeus and Cryptolocker only becauseu00a0we blended innovative legal and technical tactics with traditional law enforcement tools andu00a0developed strong working relationships withu00a0private industry experts andu00a0law enforcement counterpartsu00a0in more than 10 countriesu00a0around the world." "The ultimate goal of the law enforcement activity is to prevent infected computers from communicating with one another, significantly weakening the criminal infrastructure," blogged Rik Ferguson of Trend Micro. "While this blow is effective, it is not permanent and we expect the malicious networks to return to their former strength withinu2026weeks, if not days." "This truly global operation has seen coordinated activities aimed at taking over or disrupting elements of the Command & Control infrastructure used to spread these pernicious malware families, but we cannot achieve this goal alone, every computer user has their own role to play," he added. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c3cc6cefc41c844ab212" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CryptoWall 2.0 Ransomware Capable of Executing 64-Bit Code: Cisco", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/cryptowall-20-ransomware-capable-executing-64-bit-code-cisco", "Date" : "January 07, 2015", "Article" : "Researchers of Ciscou2019s Talos Group have conducted an in-depth analysis of CryptoWall 2.0, a notorious piece of ransomware designed to encrypt files on infected systems and hold them for ransom. CryptoWall has been around since at least November 2013. The malware has been distributed through spam and malvertising campaigns. Exploits kits such as Flashpack, Angler, Infinity and RIG have been used to push the threat onto victimsu2019 computers. In August 2014, the Dell SecureWorks Counter Threat Unit reported that CryptoWall had infected nearly 625,000 systems between mid-March and August 24, encrypting over 5 billion files. Researchers determined that the ransomware had helped its masters earn more than $1 million in the six-month period. The first samples of CryptoWall 2.0 were spotted by researchers in October. Experts noted at the time that the malware authors had started using the Tor anonymity network to protect command and control (C&C) traffic. According to Cisco, the CryptoWall 2.0 dropper relies on multiple exploits for initial access to a system. One of the samples analyzed by researchers exploited an old Windows vulnerability (CVE-2013-3660) to escalate its privileges. In order to ensure that itu2019s not executed in a sandbox environment, the ransomware incorporates anti-VM and anti-emulation checks that must be passed before the actual malware is installed on a system. Both the dropper and the binary it downloads are protected by several layers of encryption, Cisco said. Experts noted that CryptoWall 2.0 creates registry entries for persistence, and disables system protections and various services (Windows Update, ERSvc, Security Center, Windows Defender, Background Intelligent Transfer Service, Windows Error Reporting Service) on the infected device. An interesting aspect of CryptoWall 2.0 is that it can run 64-bit code directly from the 32-bit dropper. It does this by leveraging the WoW64 (Windows 32-bit on Windows 64-bit) subsystem to switch the processor execution context. u201c[The analyzed sample] includes some 64 bit code (and an exploit DLL) directly in its main 32-bit executable. Although the main module is running in 32-bit mode, it is capable of executing all the 64-bit functions it needs. It accomplishes this by performing a direct Processor execution context switch,u201d Cisco researchers explained in a blog post. CryptoWall has taken the place of CryptoLocker, the most notorious piece of ransomware before its infrastructure was disrupted by law enforcement authorities last summer as part of an operation targeting the Gameover Zeus malware. While the original CryptoLocker is out of the picture, cybercriminals still leverage its reputation. In mid-December, Barracuda Labs researchers reported spotting infections with a ransomware claiming to be CryptoLocker in Australia. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4676cefc41c844ab31e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "PrisonLocker Ransomware an 'Evolution' From CryptoLocker", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/prisonlocker-ransomware-evolution-cryptolocker", "Date" : "January 07, 2014", "Article" : "Security researchers with Malware Must Die have been tracking a sophisticated new piece of ransomware that may soon be ready to be released into the wild.   Originally called PrisonLocker but also known as PowerLocker, the malware has been apparently under development for several months and has been promoted in various hacker forums as well as publicly on Pastebin. Written in C/C++, the malware's author says that it will encrypt virtually every file on infected machines - except .exe, .sys, .dll and other system files - via Blowfish. The uniquely generated Blowfish key is then encrypted with RSA-2048 encryption. The ransomware also encrypts files on shared drives, and detects virtual machine, debugger and sandbox environments.   "You can either approve or deny (resetting the removal clock duration, specified by you during purchase) a payment code, and then unlock/decrypt files on the PC (identified by IP)," according to an announcement of the malware posted on Pastebin.   Calling the malware a natural evolution from CryptoLocker, Bit9 CTO Harry Sverdlove said that he expects more ransomware to be on the horizon in 2014.   "Based on the successes and failures of its predecessors, PrisonLocker appears to use more efficient methods of deterring security analysts and threat researchers, such as virtual machine/sandbox detection and more comprehensive disabling of user interaction," he said. "The techniques used by these types of ransomware attacks are well documented and not necessarily advanced, but they are unfortunately very effective."   The malware author claims to be willing to sell the malware for about $100 per license. In an ironic twist, Malware Must Die said they were able to tie the malware's author to a Twitter account @Wenhsl and the security blog Wenhsl[dot]blogspot.com. In the Twitter profile, the user describes himself as an "infosec/malware researcher."   Andrew Meyer, vice president of intelligence services at CrowdStrike, speculated that the person may have a foot in two worlds u2013 the white hat world and the black hat world.   "He's probably seeing that being a legitimate security researcher was not as financially-motivating or beneficial as he hoped it might have been, so maybe he's starting to look into other options," he said.   He added that posting details of the malware to a public forum was not a smart idea.   "This is not somebodyu2026I would say was maybe as good a criminal as he was a coder perhaps because his operational security was just terrible," he said.   Malware Must Die urged law enforcement to take a look at the information that has been gathered on the case and the suspect.   "Most malware authors are no different than everyone else u2013 they follow trends that have proven to be successful," said Sverdlove. "CryptoLocker has garnered a lot of press lately and has been very lucrative for the criminals. Thatu2019s a two-for-one win: the attackers get both money and glory, appealing to both criminals and hackers alike. It is inevitable that copycats and variants will follow. CryptoLocker has shown everyone how effective and profitable [ransomware] can be without much effort." " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4706cefc41c844ab330" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CryptoLocker Ransomware Now Spreading Through Removable Drives", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/cryptolocker-ransomware-now-spreading-through-removable-drives", "Date" : "December 26, 2013", "Article" : "During the past few months, advancements in CryptoLocker put ransomware on the public's radar in a major way.  But according to researchers at Trend Micro, enhancements in the world of ransomware have not stopped as the year as 2013 has come to a close. According to the company, a piece of ransomware they believe is a variant of CryptoLocker has the ability to now spread through removable drives. This update is significant because it has not been seen in other variants and the added propagation routines means the malware can easily spread, according to Trend Micro. "Aside from its propagation technique, the new malware bears numerous differences from known CryptoLocker variants," blogged Abigail Pichel of Trend Micro. "Rather than relying on a downloader malwareu2014often UPATREu2014 to infect systems, this malware pretends to be an activator for various software such asu00a0Adobe Photoshopu00a0andu00a0Microsoft Officeu00a0in peer-to-peer (P2P) file sharing sites. Uploading the malware in P2P sites allows bad guys to easily infect systems without the need to create (and send) spammed messages." In another break from the norm, the malware u2013 detected by Trend Micro as WORM_CRILOCK.A u2013 has abandoned domain generation algorithm (DGA). Instead, its command-and-control (C&C) servers are hardcoded into the malware. "Hardcoding the URLs makes it easier to detect and block the related malicious URLs. DGA, on the other hand, may allow cybercriminals to evade detection as it uses a large number of potential domains," Pichel noted. "This could mean that the malware is still in the process of being refined and improved upon. Thus, we can expect latter variants to have the DGA capability." There are a number of other differences between the malware and other versions of CryptoLocker, so much so that some have questioned whether or not the variant is a variant at all. Researchers at ESET for example noted that this malware - which calls itself CryptoLocker 2.0 - claims to use RSA-4096 (it actually uses RSA-1024) anad doesn't show a countdown timer like CryptoLocker. It also only accepts the ransom in Bitcoins as opposed to other methods. "Taking into account all the aforementioned differences, it is unlikely that the malware that calls itself 'Cryptolocker 2.0' is actually a new version of the previous Cryptolocker ransomware from the same authors," blogged Robert Lipovsky, a malware researcher at ESET. In any event, research from Dell SecureWorks suggests that CryptoLocker has done significant damage.u00a0According to the company, the criminal gang behind CryptoLocker infected between 200,000 and 2500,000 computers in the first 100 days of a campaign that began Sept. 5. "Based on this information and measurements of infection rates, CTU researchers estimate a minimum of 0.4%, and very likely many times that, of CryptoLocker victims are electing to pay the ransom," blogged Keith Jarvis, Dell SecureWorks Counter Threat Unit Threat Intelligence. "Based on its design, deployment method, and empirical observations of its distribution, CryptoLocker appears to target English-speakers, specifically those located in the United States," Jarvis added. "Malware authors from Russia and Eastern Europe, where the CryptoLocker authors are thought to originate, commonly target victims in North America and Western Europe. Law enforcement cooperation between these regions is complicated by numerous factors, which often results in threat actors believing that they can operate with impunity." According to Pichel, to avoid the latest variant of CryptoLocker, Web surfers should be wary of using peer-to-peer sites to get copies of software, and instead visit reputable sites. "Given WORM_CRILOCKu2019s ability to spread via removable drives, users should also exercise caution when using flash drives and the like," she blogged, adding that users should never connect their drives into unfamiliar or unknown machines. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4916cefc41c844ab36b" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Fake AV Attacks Decline as Cybercriminals Shift Tactics", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/fake-av-attacks-decline-cybercriminals-shift-tactics", "Date" : "August 21, 2014", "Article" : "Cybercrooks are not ready to give up on fake anti-virus attacks just yet and they're even coming up with new methods to trick victims into paying up. These rogue anti-virus camapigns display numerous virus warnings on infected machines in an effort to trick users into paying a fee to have the so-called threats removed. With the emergence of ransomware, fake anti-virus has witnessed a significant decline recently. However, while such threats might not be as common as they used to be, cybercriminals continue to use them to make a profit. Security researchers at Microsoft have been monitoring the evolution of fake AVs and they've noticed that pieces of malware such as Win32/Winwebsec, Win32/OneScan, Win32/FakeXPA and Win32/FakePAV, which at one point were the most prevalent of the rogue families, have been on a downward trend all over the world. "However, since the big malware 'players' are having more trouble in taking advantage of users paying for fake security products, and are moving away from this kind of social engineering, we are seeing other players willing to fill the gap u2013 luckily with small impact," Daniel Chipiristeanu of the Microsoft Malware Protection Center explained in a blog post. One example is the fake AV detected by Microsoft as Rogue:Win32/Defru. It's not uncommon for such malware to prevent victims from visiting the websites of security solutions providers to ensure that the infection cannot be easily removed. However, Defru takes it even further by using the "hosts" file to redirect users to a fake antivirus website. When the victims attempt to access sites like apple.com, bing.com, facebook.com, microsoft.com and yahoo.com, they are taken to a bogus "Windows Security" page where they're presented with a fake scan and several malware alerts. A total of more than 300 websites are targeted by Defru, including security websites, news websites, social networks and other popular online services. After being presented with the bogus warnings numerous times, users might give in and agree to pay to have their computers "cleaned up."  The cybercriminals behind this operation appear to be targeting Russian speaking users, with most victims being located in Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan. "The rogue is written in PHP, uses a PHP EXE compiler (Bambalam) and will copy itself to %appdata%w1ndows_<4chars>.exe (e.g. "w1ndows_33a0.exe"). It persists at system reboot by adding itself to the registry key HKCUSOFTWAREMicrosoftWindowsCurrentVersionRun with the value "w1ndows_<4chars>," said Chipiristeanu. Fortunately, it's not difficult to remove the malware from an infected device. Users must remove the entry value from the "Run" registry key, and delete the executable file from disk and the entries from the "hosts" file.  Dodi Glenn, senior director of Security Intelligence and Research Labs at ThreatTrack Security, believes that redirecting users from good websites to malicious ones can be an effective method to siphoning money from victims. "There has been a big decline in rogues lately. We tend to see spikes in rogue malware distribution towards September, when students are going back to school, and the holiday season begins. The miscreants will typically prey on people who are searching for hot topics, such as Christmas gifts, etc., by setting up drive by download sites, infecting machines which have vulnerabilities on them," Glenn told SecurityWeek. Experts say cybercriminals are moving away from fake anti-virus attacks because they're not as profitable as they used to be. "Fake A/V is something that weu2019ve been monitoring for a long time and it has been a favorite tool in the arsenal of cyber criminals given the ease with which users can be tricked into either paying for a bogus subscription, or downloading malware when presented with what looks like a legitimate anti-virus alert," said Jayce Nichols, chief of threat analysis and innovation at iSIGHT Partners.   "The reduction in infections from Fake A/V most likely points toward a decrease in profitability for the criminal actors using it u2013 either driven by heightened user awareness and (more likely) effective combatting techniques from anti-malware vendors. Criminal actors typically take the path of least resistance which also promises the highest return. Cyber criminals gravitate towards the most profitable options u2013 if rogue / Fake A/V is becoming less profitable, they are going to use it less," Nichols told SecurityWeek. Both experts agree that ransomware is much more efficient when it comes to helping cybercrooks make a profit.  "We believe that ransomware applications, like CryptoLocker, will continue to be created, in efforts to take money from victims. It is important to know that these applications are not only targeting Windows machines, but also Android devices," Glenn said. "Weu2019ve seen a rise in ransomware u2013 primarily because unlike Fake A/V, the bad actors can actually hold the victim over a fire by encrypting their files. We reported on an active campaign using ransomware just the other day u2013 which appears to use a new variant we dubbed 'TorrentLocker' u2013 and we think that weu2019ll continue to see broad use of ransomware as an alternative to Fake A/V moving forward," Nichols noted. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b27c4ac6cefc41c844ab3a1" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Free Service Helps CryptoLocker Victims Recover Files", "Address" : "https://www.securityweek.com/free-service-helps-cryptolocker-victims-recover-files", "Date" : "August 06, 2014", "Article" : "FireEye and Fox-IT have teamed up to provide a new service to assist users whose computers have been infected with the notorious CryptoLocker ransomware.  CryptoLocker has been designed to encrypt the most important files found on infected computers and keep them that way until victims pay the ransom demanded by the attackers. The threat has helped cybercriminals make millions of dollars from internauts and companies located all over the world. In June, law enforcement agencies and private sector companies announced that a major takedown operation targeting the Gameover Zeus botnet had also hit CryptoLocker. While new infections have been prevented, there are still a large number of users whose files remain encrypted. FireEye and Fox-IT have managed to obtain many of the private keys associated with the malware, so they've launched a free service which they've dubbed DecryptCryptoLocker. The service provides users with the private keys needed to decrypt the files encrypted by CryptoLocker, and assistance on how to use them.  In order to recover their files, victims must first identify one encrypted file that is unlikely to contain any sensitive information. They must upload the said file to the DecryptCryptoLocker portal, and provide an email address to which the private key can be sent.  Users are then instructed to download a command-line tool called Decryptolocker.exe and wait for the key for their encrypted files to be delivered via email. Once the key is obtained, the tool must be executed in the Windows Command Prompt by using the following syntax: Decryptolocker.exe u2013key u201c<key>u201d <Lockedfile.doc> In a blog post published on Wednesday, FireEye has clarified that there are several CryptoLocker variants and it's possible that the DecryptCryptoLocker tool will only work for some of them. Furthermore, while the companies have obtained a large number of keys, there's no guarantee that they'll be able to help all victims.  "We are excited to work with Fox-IT to offer a free resource that can help thousands of businesses affected by the spread of CryptoLocker over the last few months," noted Darien Kindlund, director of threat intelligence at FireEye. "No matter the type of cyber breach that a business is impacted by, it is our goal to resolve them and get organizations back to normal operations as quickly as possible." "The criminals continue to push the boundaries; Fox-IT's InTELL team and FireEye have shared expertise and investment to deliver a free service that demonstrates there are plenty of good guys who are there to help those who are the victims of the criminals," explained Andy Chandler, senior vice president at Fox-IT. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bfcf6cefc42b00293560" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "EPIC Fail u2014 For the Third Time, Linux Ransomware CRACKED!", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2016/01/linux-ransomware-decryption.html", "Date" : "2016-01-07T00:25:00-11:00", "Article" : "Ransomware is now a common practice for money-motivated cyber criminals. It's basically a type of software written in any system-based programming language that has the ability to hijack victimu2019s computer, encrypts files and then ask for a ransom amount to get them back. One such ransomware dubbed Linux.Encoder targets Linux-powered websites and servers by encrypting MySQL, Apache, and home/root folders associated with the target site and asks for 1 Bitcoin ($453.99) to decrypt those crucial files. But, the good news is it is very easy to get rid of it. The Malware author released the third version of the Linux.Encoder ransomware, which security researchers from Bitdefender have managed to crack, yet again, after breaking previous two versions. However, before the team managed to release the Linux.Encoder decryption tool, the third iteration of Linux.Encoder ransomware, which was first discovered by antivirus maker Dr.Web, has infected a nearly 600 servers worldwide. Linux.Encoder Decryption Tool Though victims who got infected by the third version of Linux.Encoder ransomware doesn't have to pay any ransom to get your important files back, and they can simply unlock it using Bitdefender's Linux.Encoder decryption tool to unlock their files. But the epic part here is even after the successful decryption of its previous Linux.Encoder ransomware versions, the group of ransomware creators, were still not able to write a perfect code for its third version. "As we expected, the creators of Linux.Encoder have fixed their previous bugs and have come up with a new and improved variant," says BitDefender boffin Radu Caragea. "Luckily for the victims, the new variant of Linux.Encoder is still vulnerable to key recovery attacks." It seems that the malware authors of Linux.encoder ransomware are newbie programmers who are just motivated by the success of other popular ransomware such as CryptoWall and CryptoLocker. Also Read: CryptoWall Ransomware raised $325 Million in Revenue for Its Developer This incident shows that there could be hundreds of other young newbies who are developing their own ransomware in order to earn money like other organised cyber criminal gangs. Moreover, it would be easier for law enforcement agencies, like Europol, to trace such immature programmers, as they might not be perfect in hiding themselves." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bfd66cefc42b00293563" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Ransom32 u2014 First JavaScript-powered Ransomware affecting Windows, Mac and Linux", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2016/01/javascript-ransomware-malware.html", "Date" : "2016-01-04T01:11:00-11:00", "Article" : "Here's New Year's first Ransomware: Ransom32. A new Ransomware-as-a-service, dubbed Ransom32, has been spotted that for the first time uses a ransomware written in JavaScript to infect Mac, Windows as well as Linux machines. Ransom32 allows its operators to deploy the malware very quickly and easily. It has a dashboard that enables operators to designate their Bitcoin addresses to which the ransom can be sent. The dashboard also shows stats about how much Bitcoins they have made. In short, this new ransomware-as-a-service is so simple, and efficient at the same time, that anyone can download and distribute his/her own copy of the ransomware executable as long as he/she have a Bitcoin address. The copy of Ransom32 was first analysed by Emsisoft, which found that the new ransomware family, which embedded in a self-extracting WinRAR archive, is using the NW.js platform for infiltrating the victims' computers, and then holding their files by encrypting them with 128-bit AES encryption. Also Read: Free Ransomware Decryption and Malware Removal ToolKit But, Why the NW.js Framework? NW.js, formerly known as Node-WebKit, is a JavaScript framework for app development based on Node.js and Chromium. It works around normally-strict sandboxing of JavaScript, so a Web app can be repurposed for desktops without the sandbox getting in its way. "NW.js allows for much more control and interaction with the underlying operating system (OS), enabling JavaScript to do almost everything 'normal' programming languages like C++ or Delphi can do," Emsisoft's Fabian Wosar writes. The NW.js framework not only allows for cross-platform infections but also is harder to detect because it is a legitimate framework. Ransom32 has some resemblance to CryptoLocker that is one of the nasty ransomware that already infected millions of PCs. Ransom32 has been traded on the dark web with the authors asking for a 25 percent cut of all ransom payments for offering its service and forwarding the rest of the amount to the operatoru2019s Bitcoin address. Also Read: Free CryptoLocker Ransomware Decryption Tool Released How Does Ransom32 Work? Malware operators place the malicious file inside emails masquerading as delivery notifications, unpaid invoices, and such. As soon as it was installed and launched, Ransom32 connected to a command-and-control (C&C) server on TOR anonymising network, displaying ransom note as shown above and the Bitcoin address where victims are supposed to pay to recover their files. Currently, Wosar has only seen Ransom32 as a Windows attack vector, but the NW.js framework can run on all three major operating systems. Therefore, ransomware coded to work on top of NW.js would theoretically be able to target Mac OS X as well as Linux operating systems. How to Protect Yourself from Ransomware Threat? Here are some important steps that should be considered to protect yourself from Ransomware threats. Always keep regular backups of your important data. Make sure you run an active anti-virus security suite of tools on your system. Do not open email attachments from unknown sources. Most importantly, always browse the Internet safely. To keep yourself safe, we also have an excellent article on How to protect your computer from ransomware malware?" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35bff96cefc42b0029356c" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Linux Ransomware targeting Servers and Threatening Webmasters to Pay", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2015/11/linux-ransomware.html", "Date" : "2015-11-09T00:47:00-11:00", "Article" : "Since past few years, Ransomware has emerged as one of the catastrophic malware programs that lets hacker encrypts all the contents of a victim's hard drive or/and server and demands ransom (typically to be paid in Bitcoin) in exchange for a key to decrypt it. Until now cyber criminals were targeting computers, smartphones and tablets, but now it appears they are creating ransomware that makes the same impact but for Web Sites u2013 specifically holding files, pages and images of the target website for Ransom. Dubbed Linux.Encoder.1 by Russian antivirus firm Dr.Web, the new strain of ransomware targets Linux-powered websites and servers by encrypting MySQL, Apache, and home/root folders associated with the target site and asking for 1 Bitcoin (~ $300) to decrypt the files. The ransomware threat is delivered to the target website through known vulnerabilities in website plugins or third-party software. Must Read: FBI Suggests Ransomware Victims u2014 'Just Pay the Ransom Money'. Once infected, the Linux.Encoder.1 malware encrypts all files in the Home directories on the system as well as Backup directories and the System Folders associated with Web site files, pages, images, code libraries and scripts. Ransomware Uses AES Encryption According to the security researchers, the ransomware in question needs root privileges to work. Additionally, when it launches, the malware starts downloading: The Ransom Message containing the demands of fraudsters A file containing the public RSA key After that, the Ransomware starts as a daemon and deletes all of the original files. The RSA key is then used to store AES keys that are used by the ransomware to encrypt the local files on the infected computer. The ransomware also adds the .encrypt extension to each file it encrypts and writes a ransom text message in every folder. Also Read: FBI Offers $3 Million Reward For Arrest Of Russian Hacker behind CryptoLocker Ransomware. Targeting Linux-Powered Websites and Servers The malware specifically encrypts files in folders that are typically found in Linux Web server setups, including directories like home, root, MySQL, Apache, and any directory that includes terms such as git, svn, webapp, www, public_html, or backup. Moreover, the ransomware looks for files that have extensions specific to Web development environments including .js, .css, .properties, .xml, .ruby, .php, .html, .gz, and .asp, as well as other file extensions like .rar, .7z, .xls, .pdf, .doc, .avi, .mov, .png, and .jpg. Once the victim pays the ransom amount, the system receives a signal to pass over the directories again to decrypt the files. Until security researchers create a decryption program, they recommend webmasters to backup all important data and keep all their files in place in case they are targeted. Also Read: Anyone can Now Create their Own Ransomware using This Hacking ToolKit." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d47f6cefc42b00293580" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Cisco Takes Down Ransomware Operation Generating $30 Million in Revenue For Hackers", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2015/10/ransomware-hacking.html", "Date" : "2015-10-06T20:52:00-11:00", "Article" : "This will blow the minds of every single cyber criminal group out there u2013 Researchers have discovered a group of hackers that is making an estimated $30 Million a year from their online criminal operation. Yes, $30 MILLLLLLION annually. Researchers from cyber security firm Cisco announced that they discovered a large ransomware campaign connected to the Angler Exploit Kit, one of the most potent exploit kits available in the underground market for hacking into computers. Researchers noticed that the large percentage of infected users were connecting to servers belonging to hosting provider Limestone Networks. After digging out more, they estimated that a single hacker or a group of hackers is targeting up to 90,000 end users a day. Here are some estimates by Cisco researchers after investigating the operation: Life of an Angler exploit server is one day Around 3600 users are compromised per day by ransomware 3% of targets paid the average ransom demand of $300 to the hackers As a result, the researchers estimated that this particular hacker or a group of hackers is generating an annual revenue of more than $34 Million. Remember, it's just a figure estimated by Cisco researchers following the log files retrieved from just one server. The actual number could be even larger than $30 Million annually, but we can not immediately come to any conclusions. Researchers from Cisco Systems' Talos Security unit noted that "using simple math [one] can easily determine that this [particular] adversary is making potentially $3 Million a month," but "It is difficult to be 100% accurate with these numbers." Hackers Making $60 Million Annually The security firm also claims that this hacker or group of hackers is responsible for up to 50% of Angler Exploit Kit activity, which means that the Angler kit might be generating revenue of more than $60M annually for hackers around the world. The affected hosting provider Limestone Networks have since shut down the malicious servers after Cisco researchers contacted them. Angler Exploit kit, first identified in late 2013, has managed to become one of the most popular exploit kits in the market. Essentially it packages a number of hacking tools that take advantage of vulnerabilities Flash, Java and other browser plugins to break into targets' systems. Now cyber criminals are making use of ransomware in their kit that yield them more money per attack. "This is a significant blow to the emerging hacker economy," researchers said, "where ransomware and the black market sale of stolen IP, credit card info and personally identifiable information (PII) are generating hundreds of millions of dollars annually." How to Protect Against Ransomware? However, there are several ways to help protect your computer against ransomware and other malware threats: Make sure to keep all of the software on your computer up to date. Make sure that automatic updating is turned on to get all the latest security updates. Use secure connections for sensitive transactions. Never open any attachment unless you know who it's from and why they are sending it. Use virtual keyboard for internet banking. Use strong alphanumeric and symbol passwords. Common sense is another useful weapon in the fight against viruses. Also Read: How to protect your computer from CryptoLocker ransomware malware? Free CryptoLocker Ransomware Decryption Tool Released CoinVault Ransomware Decryption Tool Released 'Tox' Offers Free build-your-own Ransomware Malware Toolkit" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d4c56cefc42b002935a2" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "These Are The FBI's Most Wanted Hackers u2014 Total $4.2 Million Reward", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2015/07/fbi-most-wanted-hackers.html", "Date" : "2015-07-01T02:14:00-11:00", "Article" : "The US State Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are willing to pay a total $4.2 Million for information leading to the arrest and/or conviction of top 5 most wanted cyber criminals accused of conducting frauds of hundreds of millions of dollars. Evgeniy Bogachev,30; Nicolae Popescu, 34; Alexsey Belan, 28; Peteris Sahurovs, 26; and Shailesh Kumar Jain, 45; are in the list of FBI's Top 5 most-wanted hackers. 1. Evgeniy Mikhailovich Bogachev | Reward - $3 MILLION Evgeniy Mikhailovich Bogachev, also known under the aliases "lucky12345," "Slavik," and "Pollingsoon," is the mastermind behind the GameOver Zeus botnet, which was allegedly used by criminals to infect more than 1 Million computers, resulting in up to $100 Million in losses since 2009. Besides GameOver Zeus botnet, Bogachev is also accused of developing CryptoLocker Ransomware, which was designed to extort money from computer victims by holding their systemu2019s files hostage until the victim pays a ransom fee to get them back. Bogachev tops the FBI target's list with $3 Million in reward for anyone giving the information leading to his direct arrest and/or conviction. 2. Nicolae Popescu | Reward - $1 Million Nicolae Popescu, who also used the aliases Niculae Popescu, Nae Popescu, Nicolae Petrache, "Nae", and "Stoichitoiu", second topped the FBI's 5 Most-Wanted Cyber Criminals list. This 34-year-old Romanian is accused of fooling innocent Americans with fake auction posts on several websites, including eBay, Cars.com, and AutoTrader.com, claiming to sell cars that just didn't exist. Popescu and other criminal hackers affiliated with the scheme made more than $3 Million off the auctions, victimizing almost 800 users who handed over money for imaginary cars, Rolex watches, yachts, private airplanes, and other luxury goods. Authorities tracked down and arrested six members of the cyber gang in late 2012, but Popescu and a partner slipped away. 3. Alexsey Belan | Reward - $100,000 Alexsey Belan, a Russian national, is wanted for allegedly stealing consumer data by compromising the cyber security systems of three unnamed major US-based e-commerce sites in Nevada and California between 2012 and 2013. After stealing and exporting user databases with passwords to his server, Belan is accused of allegedly negotiating the sales of the databases. 4. Peteris Sahurovs | Reward - $50,000 Peteris Sahurovs is accused of developing and selling a computer virus through advertisements on news website pages. He allegedly carried out the scheme from February 2010 to September 2010. Under the malicious scheme, the fake ads displayed on the web pages forced users to purchase fraudulent antivirus software. In case, a user refuse to buy the software, the victimu2019s desktop would be flooded with pop-ups and fake security alerts. Sahurovs, a native of Latvia, made more than $2 Million by selling his "antivirus" software. 5. Shailesh Kumar Jain | Reward - $50,000 Shailesh Kumar Jain is the only American citizen on the FBIu2019s Most Wanted Hackers list. Jain made $100 Million between December 2006 and October 2008, according to the FBI. He used a flood of pop-up ads and email scamming to convince users that their computers were infected with a virus and then selling them the bogus AV software packages for between $30 and $70." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d4fc6cefc42b002935bf" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Chicago Police Department Pays $600 Cryptoware Ransom to Cybercriminals", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2015/02/cryptoware-ramsomware-bitcoin.html", "Date" : "2015-02-22T23:34:00-11:00", "Article" : "Cyber criminals have started targeting government enforcement of the Ransomware in an attempt to extort money. Recently, the police department of the Midlothian Village in Illinois has paid a ransom of over $600 in Bitcoins to an unknown hacker after being hit by a popular ransomware attack. The popular Ransomware, dubbed Cryptoware, disabled a police computer in Midlothian u2014 located south of Chicago u2014 by making it inaccessible through its file-encryption capabilities and forced them to pay a ransom in order to restore access to the important police records. The Chicago Tribune reported that the department first encountered Cryptoware in January, when someone in the department opened a spear-phishing email that pointed to the malicious software. Once opened, the email carrying the Cryptoware ransomware immediately encrypts the files on the computer and, in typical ransomware style, displays a message demanding money in exchange for a decrypt code that could free the device from Cryptoware. Midlothian Police Chief Harold Kaufman confirmed the police department had been hacked, but declined further comment. Local IT professionals assured that the hacker didnu2019t get access to files in the police department's database, rather the Cryptoware program only made certain documents inaccessible. "It didn't encrypt everything in the police department. It was just that computer and specific files, not the entire system," Calvin Harden Jr., an IT vendor who works with the village and the police on overcoming this threat, told the Tribune. Cybersecurity experts recommend business users routinely back up their data, but, according to Harden, the police officials were forced to make the payment because going after the hacker might have been more trouble than it was worth. "Because the backups were also infected, the option was to pay the hacker and get the files unencrypted, which is what we decided to do," Harden told the newspaper. This isnu2019t the first time when hackers have targeted a government agency. Back in November, 2013, the cyber criminals had managed to encrypt the database of Massachusetts' Swansea Police Department by CryptoLocker ransomware and forced them to pay $750 to restore their files. Midlothian follows the city of Detroit and a sheriff's office in Tennessee as Cryptoware victims within the last year. Forcing victims to pay via Bitcoin provides the hackers an easy method to collect money and moving on to future victims with little-to-no digital footprint However, law enforcement succeeded in decreasing various ransomware attacks, but with the discovery of 2.0 versions, the ransomware even made it way to infect the mobile devices. Previously known and popular Ransomware are as follow: CryptoLocker Cryptowall PrisonLocker and now Cryptoware is really a threat to online users. The best defense against Ransomware is creating awareness within the organization and at home, as well as maintaining backups that are rotated regularly. Ensure that your systems are running the latest version of Antivirus software with up to date malware definitions." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d5696cefc42b002935f8" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Free CryptoLocker Ransomware Decryption Tool Released", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2014/08/CryptoLocker-Decryption-Keys-Tool.html", "Date" : "2014-08-06T23:04:00-11:00", "Article" : "When I say Ransomware, the first nasty piece of malware strikes in the mind is CryptoLocker. A nasty strain of ransomware malware that threatened most of the people around the world by effectively destroying important files of the victims forever. CRYPTOLOCKER - A DEVASTATING THREAT CryptoLocker is a simple rather a devastating piece of Ransomware that encrypts the files on a victimu2019s computer and issues an ultimatum - Pay up or lose your data. CryptoLocker is particularly designed to extort money from computer users by holding computer files hostage until the computer user pays a ransom fee to get them back. Cryptolocker hijacker sniffs out your personal files and wraps them with strong AES-256-bit encryption before it demands money. HOW TO DECRYPT CRYPTOLOCKER? FREE TOOL RELEASED Thanks to security experts, who created an online service where victims whose systems have been encrypted by the CryptoLocker ransomware can get the decryption keys for free. This online portal has been created by the security researchers from Security software and services firms Fireeye and Fox-IT. The researchers created the portal after they used a copy of CryptoLocker's database of victims that was obtained during the recent takedown of the GameOver Zeus botnet, which was used to distribute the ransomware. "This time we basically got lucky," said Michael Sandee, principal analyst at Fox-IT, one of the security firms which helped uncover the cybercrime group behind Cryptolocker. The infrastructure of Cryptolocker and other malware was taken down in June under a campaign known as Operation Tovar, but there are still many cases where this nasty strain of ransomware is infecting users, according to Fireeye. u201cAfter the success of Operation Tovar, there were few resources available to help decrypt files that were still encrypted with the attackeru2019s private key,u201d Fireeye explains in a blog post. CRYPTOLOCKER DEMANDS $500, BUT ONLINE DECRYPTION TOOL IS FREE Where CryptoLocker ransomware forced its victim to pay upto $500 in Bitcoins within 72 hours for the private keys necessary to unlock personal files, on the other hand, the security firms are providing the private decryption keys for free via the just-launched Decrypt CryptoLocker website. According to FBI estimates from June, more than 500,000 people fell victim to CryptoLocker between September 2013 and May 2014. Fox-IT says around 1.3 percent of victims paid to free their files, which indicates, the malware earned its makers around $3 million before the criminal network was smashed by authorities and security researchers in May. HOW TO DECRYPT FILES INFECTED BY CRYPTOLOCKER You only need a master decryption key in order to decrypt the locked files. Go to https://www.decryptcryptolocker.com Upload an email address and one of the encrypted files (one that should have no sensitive information). The online tool will scan the file to figure out the encryption specifics, and then send you a recovery program and master decryption key via an email. You can take that key and the free decryptolocker.exe command line tool and decrypt your files. FireEye warns that some data might not be recoverable, particularly if you've been infected by a CryptoLocker variant rather than CryptoLocker itself. You need to keep this in mind that there are many Cryptolocker variants with the names like PrisonLocker, CryptoDefense, TorLocker and CryptorBit, so the tool may not work against them. Read More - Learn How to protect your computer from Cryptolocker Malware." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d59c6cefc42b00293611" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Student Decrypts Simplocker Android Ransomware that Encrypts Files", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2014/06/student-cracks-simplelocker-android.html", "Date" : "2014-06-17T00:13:00-11:00", "Article" : "In a previous story, I reported about a new ransomware threat known as Simplocker discovered by researchers at the security firm ESET, targeting Android users in the UK, Switzerland, Germany, India and Russia, for ransom. Simplocker (Android/Simplocker.A) is the latest Android ransomware that has ability to encrypt the files using Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) on the Android device SD cards demanding users pay a ransom of 260 UAH (Ukrainian hryvnias), which is roughly equal to $21 US, for those files to be decrypted. To hide their track, the malware author is using the Command-and-Control server hosted on TOR .onion domain, which makes it difficult to trace the server's physical location or determine who is operating it. The malware collects information about the usersu2019 phone such as IMEI number, Operating System, phone model and manufacturer to send it all to Command-and-Control server. STUDENT CRACKS SIMPLOCKER RANSOMWARE Now, an undergraduate student Simon Bell from the University of Sussex promises to release a Java application to decrypt the files encrypted by the so-called first Android File-encrypting and TOR-enabled Mobile Ransomware. In a technical blog, Secure Honey published Monday, the student has given a detailed explanation on how to reverse Simplocker Ransomware and develop an app to pluck the decryption keys stored within. "This dissection shows how the app encrypts user's files and that information about the phone is sent to a C&C (command and control) server on the TOR network," Bell writes. "But one important question remains unanswered: would it be possible to decrypt files that have been encrypted by the app without connecting to the C&C server? In other words: can we reverse the damage done by this app?" Bell detailed the Static and Dynamic analysis of the Ransomware code and found a method called decrypt() which is very similar to the encrypt() method. u201cObviously this method carries out the decryption on the input file and produces the decrypted output file,u201d he said. u201cThe same line numbers from the encrypt() method are highlighted to demonstrate how decryption occurs.u201d In his next blog, heu2019ll publish the crypto-cracking app allowing victims to free their devices from the nasty Ransomware without paying any ransom fine. We have seen many similar threat such as CryptoLocker, CryptoWall and PrisonLocker ransomware targeting users Worldwide, but the only difference is that first they were targeting PCs and now with the popularity of Android platform, they are targeting Smartphones. But to keep yourself away from such emerging threats, it is always important for you to keep the back-up of all your files either manually on the computer system or with the use of cloud backup services like Dropbox, Google drive etc. We'll update you the antidote for this ransomware as soon as he get it done. Stay Tuned! UPDATE: You can download Java program to Decrypt Simplelocker Android Ransomware." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d5ab6cefc42b00293619" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Ransomware Malware takes Advantage of Windows PowerShell", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2014/06/new-ransomware-malware-takes-advantage.html", "Date" : "2014-06-03T22:09:00-11:00", "Article" : "Ransomware is one of the most blatant and obvious money making schemes for cybercriminals and it was most likely to be known when last year Cryptolocker ransomware targeted millions of computers worldwide. Recently, security researchers at the Antivirus firm TrendLabs have unearthed another sophisticated variant of the ransomware malware which is employing Windows PowerShell in an effort to encrypt files on the victimsu2019 computer. The firm detected the variant as TROJ_POSHCODER.A. Windows PowerShell is a task automation and configuration management framework from Microsoft, consisting of a command-line shell and associated scripting language. It provides full access to COM and WMI, enabling administrators to perform administrative tasks on both local and remote Windows systems as well as WS-Management and CIM enabling management of remote Linux systems and network devices. It is believed that cybercriminals have used this feature of Windows just in order to make the detection and analysis of the malware harder on an affected system. However, they failed at this point as using Windows PowerShell feature made it much easier for the researchers to detect the malware. u201cIn this case, using PowerShell made it easier to detect as this malware is also hard-coded,u201d reads the blog post. u201cDecrypting and analyzing this malware was not too difficult, particularly compared to other ransomware variants.u201d TROJ_POSHCODER.A is a script-based malware as it is using the Windows PowerShell feature. The malware makes use of the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) to encrypt the files, and RSA-4096 public key cryptography to exchange the AES key with the victims in order to decrypt the files. Once the ransomware is installed and executed on the victimu2019s Windows System, it encrypts the existing files on the infected system and then renames them to {filename}.POSHCODER. In Addition, it also drops UNLOCKYOURFILES.html into every folder. As soon as all the files on the infected system are encrypted, it displays a message to victims saying u201cYour files were encrypted and locked with a RSA4096 keyu201d and ask them to follow some given instructions in order to decrypt their files as shown in the screenshot: The instructions in the Ransom note takes users to another page as shown below, asking victims to download the Multibit application to have their own Bitcoin-wallet account for 1 Bitcoin. After victims purchase the application, they are instructed to fill and submit the form that contains information such as victimsu2019 email address, BTC address and ID, as a result to get decryption keys from the threat actors. This new variant have primarily affected English speaking targets in the United States. In our previous articles, we highlighted many variants of Cryptolocker and other similar threats that has ability to perform additional tasks such as using different languages in their warning and stealing virtual currency from cryptocurrency wallets. CryptoLocker is especially dangerous because of its infection rate and it is the most damaging Windows virus in a series of recent ransomware Trojans. We also reported last month that cybercriminals have now begun targeting Smartphones with a special piece of malicious software that locks up the devices until the victims pay a ransom to get the keys to unlock the phone, which highlights how money motivated criminals are continuously improving these threats over time. What Steps can you take to reduce the risk of your equipment becoming infected? Users are advised to never open email attachments from unknown sources and make backup of your important data to an external device or on the cloud storage. If you believe you have been infected, act quickly. Stay Safe!" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d6476cefc42b00293667" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "ICEPOL Ransomware Servers seized by Romanian Police that infected 260,000 Computers", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2014/01/icepol-ransomware-servers-seized-by.html", "Date" : "2014-01-29T22:48:00-11:00", "Article" : "After Financial and Banking Malwares, Ransomware has become the first choice of money motivated cybercriminals. A new Ransomware Trojan known as ICEPOL has been one of those widespread malware which has been successfully installed approximately 267,786 times worldwide and 42,400 in the USA alone over a five month period, analyzed by the security firm BitDefender. The ICEPOL Trojan categorized as Ransomware that locks your PC and demand for a ransom amount to unlock it. The Malware was using a previously known vulnerability in Java software i.e. CVE-2013-0422 to infect the systems. The malware threatened the user with accusations of illegal piracy or 'porn-related activity' and requires money for exemption from punishment that pretends to be from the 'police'. u201cThe ICEPOL Trojan extorted victims who downloaded it by sending them a message in any one of 25 languages purporting to be from police accusing them of downloading copyrighted material or illegal porn,u201d said Catalin Cosoi, Chief Security Strategist from Bitdefender. The malware includes one more money making scheme, i.e. Designed to redirect the victims to the website via pay-per-click scam under the traffic exchange mechanism. The police estimated that more than $32,000 was stolen from the U.S. victims over the five-month period. The Romanian police in cooperation with the Internet security firm Bitdefender found dozens of C&C servers and successfully seized one of the major C&C servers, which was the part of large distribution of ICEPOL Trojans, located in the Romanian capital Bucharest. u201cThe results of the investigation of ICEPOL Trojan based on cooperation with various law enforcement agencies and third party vendors. Despite the complex investigations, we have so far achieved very good results and we will continue to fight cybercrime", says the head of the agency against cyber crime, the Romanian National Police. This is not the first time when a ransomware tricked the victims successfully, also last year cryptolocker of the same category hits millions of computer users. So, users are advised to keep their systems software and anti-virus solutions up-to-date and most importantly patch your Java distribution immediately to Update 51. Stay Safe! Stay Tuned!" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d6746cefc42b0029367f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Cryptolocker Malware learned to replicate itself through removable USB drives", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2014/01/Cryptolocker-malware-usb-drive-worm.html", "Date" : "2014-01-05T22:12:00-11:00", "Article" : "In the category of Ransomware Malware, a nasty piece of malware called CRYPTOLOCKER is on the top, that threatened most of the people around the world, effectively destroying important files of the victims. Cryptolocker, which strongly encrypts victims' hard drives until a ransom is paid, is now again back in action to haunt your digital life with an additional feature. Until now, CryptoLocker has been spread via spam email, with victims tempted to download an attachment or click on a link to a malicious website, but now it can spread itself as a worm through removable USB drives. Security Researchers at Trend Micro have recently reported a new variant of Cryptolocker which is capable of spreading through removable USB drives. As Previously reported by our Security experts at The Hacker News, Cryptolocker is a malware which locks your files and demand a ransom to release it. The files are encrypted so removing the malware from the system doesnu2019t unlock your files. The only way to get your files decrypted is to pay a demanded ransom amount to the criminals. This new cryptolockeru2019s version is detected as WORM_CRILOCK. A, and can infect the computers by posing as key generator or activators for paid software like Adobe Photoshop, Microsoft Office on Torrent websites. If CryptoLocker has already encrypted your files, then it will display a message demanding payment. Once installed on a system, it can replicate itself onto a USB drive and spread further and also if that infected system is connected to a network, the Cryptolocker work can look for other connected drives to infect them as well. Other malware has employed similar tactics in the past, but CryptoLocker's encryption is much more secure and is currently not possible to crack. But the new Cryptolocker didnu2019t use DGA (domain generation algorithm), but instead relied on hardcoded command & control center details.Further analysis of WORM_CRILOCK reveals that it has a stark difference compared to previous variants. The malware has foregone domain generation algorithm (DGA). Instead, its command-and-control (C&C) servers are hardcoded into the malware. Hardcoding the URLs makes it easier to detect and block the related malicious URLs. DGA, on the other hand, may allow cybercriminals to evade detection as it uses a large number of potential domains. This could mean that the malware is still in the process of being refined and improved upon. Thus, we can expect latter variants to have the DGA capability.Recommendations for users to defend against such threats:Users should avoid using P2P i.e. Torrent sites to get pirated copies of software and stick with official or reputable sites. Users should also be extremely careful about plugging USB drives into their computers. If you found one lying around, don't plug it in to see what may be on it." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d6886cefc42b0029368a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "BIOS Malware that can remotely destroy any computer, NSA claimed", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2013/12/bios-malware-that-can-remotely-destroy_16.html", "Date" : "2013-12-16T07:54:00-11:00", "Article" : "During a CBS Interview show "60 Minutes", The National Security Agency (NSA) officials claimed that China has developed a BIOS based malware that can remotely destroy any computer. Obviously NSA is struggling to repair its image and in an effort to justify their extensive Surveillance programs, The NSA Director General Keith Alexander and Information Assurance Director Debora Plunkett made a number of claims. During that interview NSA officials said that they had foiled a malware attack that could have taken down the U.S. economy. "One of our analysts actually saw that the nation state had the intention to develop and to deliver, to actually use this capability to destroy computers," Plunkett said. They have mentioned that this malware was distributed via social engineering and targeted emails, although the NSA director mentioned that their researchers worked with computer manufacturers and able to close the respective vulnerability. "This is the BIOS system which starts most computers. The attack would have been disguised as a request for a software update. If the user agreed, the virus would've infected the computer." he added. "Think about the impact of that across the entire globe. It could literally take down the U.S. economy." (BULLSHIT) If this Malware was intentionally born to threat U.S Economy, then what about DNS Changer malware or Zeus banking Trojan or infomous CryptoLocker ransomware that extensively spread across USA? So, Why NSA's Surveillance programs are failed to defend us from similar known threats ? Complete Interview Video: The BIOS malware is not new in the cyber world, and really not a big threat, but if NSA seriously justifying their Surveillance program by saying that this so called BIOS malware was one of the biggest threat they has taken down, then LET ME LAUGH. (Score Card = Snowden : 3, NSA: 0)" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d6a96cefc42b0029369a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "US police department pays $750 Ransom to retrieve their files from CryptoLocker Malware", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2013/11/us-police-department-pays-750-ransom-to.html", "Date" : "2013-11-22T23:42:00-11:00", "Article" : "The CryptoLocker Malware continues to spread, infected more than 12,000 U.S computers in one week and threatening millions of computers in the UK. Just last week, The UK National Crime Agency urge people afflicted by CryptoLocker not to pay ransom, not least because there is no guarantee that they will even receive an unlock key. Not even Police departments are immune to CryptoLocker. In November second week, Massachusetts' Swansea Police Department paid a 2 Bitcoin ($750 that time) ransom to decrypt images and Word documents encrypted by CryptoLocker ransomware. "It gave us 100 hours to pay and it was literally a timer," said Police Department. "A big red screen comes up with a timer that says you have 100 hours to pay or your files will be encrypted forever." Malware usually distributed through spam emails, encrypting the user's files on the infected machine and also the local network it is attached to. However, Police Department said the virus did not affect the software that the police use in reports or booking. Security experts also commented that "The only reason this type of attack success is because people are willing to pay up. If no one ever paid, there would be no ransomware.u201d But will they also not pay ransom for their very important files, if encrypted by malware ? Definitely everyone will, as the Police have to. Other attackers are also moving in this direction as well. There are many other ways, following that you can protect your system from CryptoLocker before infection. Ensure you have best one active and up-to-date and if a computer becomes infected it should immediately be disconnected from any networks. Read more detailed articles on Cryptolocker Ransomware: Cryptolocker Ransomware makes different Bitcoin wallet for each victim CryptoLocker Ransomware demands $300 or Two Bitcoins to decrypt your files CryptoLocker developer launches Decryption Service website; 10 Bitcoins for Decryption Keys" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d6af6cefc42b0029369d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "How to protect your computer from CryptoLocker ransomware malware ?", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2013/11/how-to-protect-your-computer-from.html", "Date" : "2013-11-18T05:07:00-11:00", "Article" : "CryptoLocker is an especially insidious form of Ransomeware malware that was first detected in the wild in September 2013, restricts access to infected computers and requires victims to pay a ransom in order to regain full access. What makes CryptoLocker so bad is the way it encrypts the user data on your hard drive using a strong encryption method. This makes it literally impossible to access your own data without paying the ransom amount to the criminals between $100 and $300 or two Bitcoins, even now more. Once affected you will be locked out of your computer and unless you pay the ransom amount in 72 hours , the virus will delete the decryption key to decrypt all the files on your PC . The malware lands on PCs the same way other malware does and a few sensible precautions will help minimize the chances of a CrytoLocker attack. Yesterday, we reported that - UK's National Crime Agency has given out an urgent national alert that a mass spamming event targeting 10 million UK based email users with CryptoLocker. What if your computer gets compromised? Currently there is no option to decrypt the files without the decryption key and brute forcing a file encrypted with 2048 bit encryption is almost impossible. If you donu2019t pay the ransom, you forever lose access to everything youu2019ve been working on which is stored on your computer. A few things you can do to prevent your PC from getting infected with the CryptoLocker virus: Most viruses are introduced by opening infected attachments or clicking on links to malware usually contained in spam emails. Avoid opening emails and attachments from unknown sources, especially zip or rar archive files. Most people have some anti-virus program, but how do you know itu2019s effective? Ensure you have best one active and up-to-date. Also keep your operating system and software up-to-date. Keep a backup. If you have a real-time backup software then make sure that you first clean the computer and then restore the unencrypted version of the files. Create files in the Cloud and upload photos to online accounts like Flickr or Picasa. Windows 7 users should set up the System Restore points or, if you are using Windows 8, configure it to keep the file history. Make sure you have reformatted your hard drive to completely remove the CryptoLocker trojan before you attempt to re-install Windows and/or restore your files from a backup. There are many free tools now available in the community, that can help users to protect their systems from this malware. 1.) CryptoPrevent tool, created by American security expert Nick Shaw. This tool applies a number of settings to your installation of Windows that prevents CryptoLocker from ever executing and has been proven to work in Windows XP and Windows 7 environments. 2.) HitmanPro.Alert 2.5, a free utility that will help you to protect your computer against the CryptoLocker ransomware malware. HitmanPro.Alert 2.5 contains a new feature, called CryptoGuard that monitors your file system for suspicious operations. When suspicious behavior is detected, the malicious code is neutralized and your files remain safe from harm. 3.) BitDefender Anti-CryptoBlocker, an encryption-blocking tool that can detect and block malware from installation. Intrusion prevention systems can block the communications protocol send from the Cryptolocker infected system to the remote command-and-control server where the malware retrieves the key to encrypt the files. Blocking the communications can prevent the encryption from taking place. Read more detailed articles on Cryptolocker Ransomware: Cryptolocker Ransomware makes different Bitcoin wallet for each victim CryptoLocker Ransomware demands $300 or Two Bitcoins to decrypt your files CryptoLocker developer launches Decryption Service website; 10 Bitcoins for Decryption Keys For further Cyber Safety Alerts Join us on Twitter and Facebook." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d6b16cefc42b0029369e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Warning: 10 Million UK Users targeted with Cryptolocker Ransomware spam email campaign", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2013/11/Cryptolocker-Ransomware-spam-emails-campaign-ten-million-users.html", "Date" : "2013-11-17T06:31:00-11:00", "Article" : "The UK's National Crime Agency has given out an urgent national alert that a mass spamming event targeting 10 million UK based email users with a piece of malware called CryptoLocker that encrypts your files and then demands a ransom money to restore access. The agency has said that the people who are majorly receiving targeted spam emails that appear to be from banks and other financial institutions. Each email comes with attachments that look like files such as a voicemail, fax, an invoice or details of a suspicious transaction, but is in fact Cryptolocker Ransomware malware that encrypts the user's computer. The public should be aware not to click on any such attachment. On Infected system, The Cryptolocker Malware screen will then display a countdown timer that demands the payment of 2 Bitcoins in ransom, worth around u00a3536, for the decryption key. The NCCU is trying to trace that who is sending the emails. "We are working in cooperation with industry and international partners to identify and bring to justice those responsible and reduce the risk to the public." Lee Miles, Deputy Head of the NCCU says. Bitdefender Labs, an anti-virus company found that in the week beginning Oct. 27, more than 12,000 computers were infected and before the criminal group seemed to be exclusively targeting computers in the U.S. The UK crime agency said it advised users not to pay the ransom and warned that even if it were paid, there was no guarantee the encryption key would be turned over. Anyone whose computer is infected should report it to www.actionfraud.police.uk. NCA has put out a few recommendations to avoid infection including, files should be backed up routinely and preserved off the network. Read more detailed articles on Cryptolocker Ransomware: Cryptolocker Ransomware makes different Bitcoin wallet for each victim CryptoLocker Ransomware demands $300 or Two Bitcoins to decrypt your files CryptoLocker developer launches Decryption Service website; 10 Bitcoins for Decryption Keys" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d6b86cefc42b002936a2" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CryptoLocker developer launches Decryption Service website; 10 Bitcoins for Decryption Keys", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2013/11/CryptoLocker-Ransomware-Decryption-service-malware-keys.html", "Date" : "2013-11-03T06:08:00-11:00", "Article" : "There's an extraordinary malware making rock-n-roll over the Internet and if you are one of the unlucky folks to cross its path, then it could make your computer unusable and you have to pay a few hundred Dollars to retrieve your important data back. We have warned our readers in many previous articles about a nasty piece of Ransomware malware called 'CryptoLocker', which is targeting computers running the Microsoft Windows operating system. The CryptoLocker Ransomware encrypts the files on a victimu2019s computer and issues an ultimatum - Pay up or lose your data. Users who are getting infected with CryptoLocker can see a message informing them that their computer is locked up and their files encrypted. It then asks them to make a ransom payment, which typically ranges between $100 and $700 or 2 Bitcoins, to get their files back. Just yesterday I noticed on a forum that the criminals behind the CryptoLocker malware has recently launched a dedicated CryptoLocker decryption service website that allows victims to purchase the decryption key for their infected encrypted files. Interestingly, Malware inside the system is asking for only 2 Bitcoins ($450 USD) for the decryption keys, whereas the newly launched service price has been significantly increased 10 Bitcoins i.e. Approx $2,100 USD. Service is available on the website http://yocmvpiarwmfgyg.net/ or http://93.189.44.187/ (Russia based hosting server) and also accessible through the Tor network http://f2d2v7soksbskekh.onion/ Why Hackers has launched the Decryption Service ? Currently almost all antivirus companies are on Red alert about CryptoLocker malware and they have released updates for their users, that can detect and remove the infection or the registry keys from the system which is actually required to pay the ransom and decryption process. So if malware will get deleted, neither victim will get the decryption keys ever, neither criminal will get paid for it. So the criminal actors behind the CryptoLocker malware has launched the decryption service website, which is designed to look like a customer support site for victims. How the Decryption Service works ? The victim can upload one of its encrypted files on the service website, which will generate an order number. After uploading, a further order status page will display the date-time of infection and victim's public key. It will then prompt the user to purchase the private key by paying 10 Bitcoins or approximately $2,200 USD. Once a payment is made, just after the confirmation, the website will allow the user to download a decryption private key and a decrypter tool. Which can be used to decrypt all CryptoLocker encrypted files on the system. Another interesting fact about the service website is that, if the user has already paid the ransom amount, they will provide the private key and decrypter free of cost. CryptoLocker Ransomware, A Global threat CryptoLocker infections were found across different regions, including Europe Middle East, North America and Asia Pacific. Almost 64% victims are from the US. There are different ways an individual or an organization can handle the CryptoLocker threat. Unfortunately, there is no known tool to decrypt the files encrypted by CryptoLocker, so always take Backup of important Files. Always ensure your system softwares and Antivirus product is up-to-date. Antivirus firm Bitdefender has just released a tool to protect your files from CryptoLocker. You can Download Anti-CryptoLocker here." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d6c16cefc42b002936a7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Cryptolocker Ransomware makes different Bitcoin wallet for each victim", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2013/10/Cryptolocker-Ransomware-Bitcoin-malware-remove-software.html", "Date" : "2013-10-29T02:59:00-11:00", "Article" : "When youu2019re online, you expose your vulnerability to malicious virus that have been growing in virulence and ferocity over the last few years. Among home PC users, you may think that you protected from malicious software by Installing an effective, trusted antivirus solution, but most if the Antivirus solutions still it merely finds and removes any known threats. But what if someday you turn on your system and you will find a pop up window with a warning that says "Your system is Locked and Important drives are encrypted and there is no way out unless you will not Pay fine". This is what Ransomware malware does to your system. Ransomware is the most serious emerging threat in the virtual world of computing devices. Ransomware is a kind of malware which is designed to Block access to the computing system or can lock your system until an amount of money is paid through Internet banking. Ransomware is usually installed when you open a malicious attachment in an email message or when you click on a malicious link in an email message, instant message, a social networking site or other websites. A new piece of ransomware is giving Internet users one more reason to think twice before they click a link in an email. You may have read about the Cryptolocker malware in our previous stories on The Hacker News, a new ransomware Trojan that encrypts your files and demands money to return them. Cryptolocker has been infecting PCs around the world and effectively holding the files within for ransom. Cryptolocker first made an appearance last month. Malware Researcher 'Octavian Minea' from Bitdefender explains the detailed inner workings of the Cryptolocker Ransomware, lets have a look: The Cryptolocker ransomware gets installed with the help of Zbot variant (Zbot, is a malware toolkit that allows a cybercriminal to build his own Trojan Horse. Zeus, which is sold on the black market, allows non-programmers to purchase the technology they need to carry out cybercrimes.) and after installation it immediately adds itself to the Startup folder with a random name. Then it tries to establish connection with its command and control server on remote location using the Internet and send a 192 byte encrypted packet: "version=1&id=1&name={COMPUTER_NAME}&group={GROUP_NAME}&lid={LOCATION_ID}" Where {GROUP_NAME} seems to be related to the time of compilation of the malware and an example for {LOCATION_ID} is 'en-US'. On successful connection, the server generates a pair of 2048-bit RSA public and private key and the malware receives only the public key and a newly generated Bitcoin address. For each victim, only the Cryptolocker authors have access to the decryption private keys. The received information from the server gets stored in the system registry at: HKEY_CURRENT_USERSoftwareCryptolocker_NUMBER Which contain the values PublicKey, Version Info with Bitcoin address and the command and control server address in an encrypted form. Cryptolocker uses a solid encryption scheme as well, which so far appears unbreakable. It begins encrypting documents on any local or network storage drive, which are in any of these formats: *.odt*.ods*.odp*.odm*.odc*.odb*.doc*.docx*.docm*.wps*.xls*.xlsx*.xlsm*.xlsb*.xlk*.ppt*.pptx*.pptm*.mdb*.accdb*.pst*.dwg*.dxf*.dxg*.wpd*.rtf*.wb2*.pdf*.mdf*.dbf*.psd*.pdd*.eps*.ai*.indd*.cdr????????.jpg????????.jpeimg_*.jpg*.dng*.3fr*.arw*.srf*.sr2*.bay*.crw*.cr2*.dcr*.kdc*.erf*.mef*.mrw*.nef*.nrw*.orf*.raf*.raw*.rwl*.rw2*.r3d*.ptx*.pef*.srw*.x3f*.der*.cer*.crt*.pem*.pfx*.p12*.p7b*.p7c An AES key is generated for each file to be encrypted, the file is then AES-encrypted and the AES key is itself encrypted using the public key. The encrypted AES key is then appended to the encrypted file. While the public key is stored on the computer, the private key is stored on the command-and-control server; CryptoLocker demands a payment with either a MoneyPak card or Bitcoin to recover the key and begin decrypting files, and threatens to delete the private key if a payment is not received within 3 days. "Payment of the ransom can generally be performed in Bitcoins, although some Cryptolocker variants also accept payment methods Ukash, CashU or, only in the US of A, in Money Pack prepaid cards which can only be bought with cash. All these payment methods are practically anonymous." he said. Due to the extremely large key size it uses, analysts and those affected by the worm have considered CryptoLocker to be extremely difficult to repair. Users who have their files locked up by the ransomware are currently paying $300 to $700 to the criminals who run the virus to gain control of their computer. Once the victim pays the ransom, the transaction ID must be entered and purportedly verifications ensue. If a private key is sent by the server, it is added to the registry and the decryption process begins. So far, there have been no reports of the hackers reinfecting a machine once the ransom has been paid. However, the attackers give you roughly three days to pay them, otherwise your data is gone forever, especially if they do not perform regular and off-site backups. Todayu2019s cybercriminals are using more sophisticated attacks, such as ransomware and spear phishing, which yield them more money per attack than ever before. A sample study of 1000 users by Symantec found India to be the ransomware capital of Asia Pacific with 11% victims of virtual extortion. There are several free ways to help protect your computer against ransomware and other malware: Make sure to keep all of the software on your computer up to date. Make sure that automatic updating is turned on to get all the latest security updates. Never open any attachment unless you know who it's from and why they are sending it. Use secure connections for sensitive transactions. Use strong alphanumeric and symbol passwords. Use virtual keyboard for internet banking. Common sense is another good weapon in the fight against viruses. Swati Khandelwal - Working at 'The Hacker News'. Social Media Lover and Gadgets Girl. Speaker, Cyber Security Expert and Technical Writer.(Google+ Profile) Follow @sweetu2501swati !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],p=/^http:/.test(d.location)?'http':'https';if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src=p+'://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js';fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document, 'script', 'twitter-wjs');" }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b35d6d66cefc42b002936b1" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CryptoLocker Ransomware demands $300 or Two Bitcoins to decrypt your files", "Address" : "https://thehackernews.com/2013/10/cryptolocker-ransomware-demands-300-to.html", "Date" : "2013-10-13T04:26:00-11:00", "Article" : "If you're a daily computer user, you're likely aware of all the threats you face every day online in the form of viruses and malware. CryptoLocker, a new ransomware malware, began making the rounds several months ago. This ransomware is particularly nasty because infected users are in danger of losing their personal files forever. Ransomware is designed to extort money from computer users by holding computer files hostage until the computer user pays a ransom fee to get them back. The Cryptolocker hijacker sniffs out your personal files and wraps them with strong encryption before it demands money. Cryptolocker is spread through malicious hyperlinks shared via social media and spam emails, like fake UPS tracking notification emails. The original demanded payments of $100 to decrypt files, but the new and improved version demanding $300 from victims. Apparently, the encryption is created using a unique RSA-2048 public key. The decryption key is located on a secret server somewhere on the Internet and then there is a countdown on the infected machine which will let you know how long you have until this key will no longer be available. Ransomware is not a new threat, but in the last year, it has become more effective and more popular with criminals. Researchers from a number of antivirus vendors are working on a way to undo the damage, but it's not going to be easy. To prevent Ransomware from infecting your computer, please ensure that your computer has a properly configured firewall, updating each computer on a regular basis with the latest patches and updates from their vendor such as Microsoft, and restricting access solely to the administrator or person who operates the network or computer. Update: Another Screenshot of the latest variant CryptoLocker illustrates that Ransomware accepts payment in Bitcoins also. Once you send the payment of BTC2 (two Bitcoins, currently about $280), you will be shown a screen stating that your payment is being verified and the program will decrypt the files that it encrypted. However, CryptoLocker is the first widely-reported instances where a ransomware program will actually go as far as permanently encrypting files on a host computer. Unfortunately at this time there is no way to retrieve the private key that can be used to decrypt your files. This infection is typically spread through emails sent to company email addresses that pretend to be customer support related issues from Fedex, UPS, DHS, etc. These emails would contain a zip attachment that when opened would infect the computer. These zip files contain executable that are disguised as PDF files as they have a PDF icon and are typically named something like FORM_101513.exe or FORM_101513.pdf.exe. Since Microsoft does not show extensions by default, they look like normal PDF files and people open them. If you do not have System Restore enabled on your computer or reliable backups, then you will need to pay the ransom in order to get your files back." }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658726cefc42b00293add" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Academics Build Early-Warning Ransomware Detection System", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/academics-build-early-warning-ransomware-detection-system/119288/", "Date" : "July 14, 2016 , 1:05 pm", "Article" : "While most of the discussion around ransomware is rightly so about the unabated stampede of new strains and variations on existing samples, relatively little discourse focuses on detection beyond antivirus and intrusion prevention systems. Some generic ransomware detection systems for Windows and OS X exist, but many of those are signature-based or have other limitations that make them fairly trivial to bypass. A team of researchers from the University of Florida and the Villanova University believe they have a built a better mousetrap, one that focuses on how ransomware transforms data rather than the execution of malicious code. Their utility is called CryptoDrop, and in a test against nearly 500 real-world ransomware samples from 14 distinct families, it detected 100 percent of attacks with relatively little file loss (a median loss of 10 files). The tool is described in a paper called u201cCryptoLock (and Drop it): Stopping Ransomware Attacks on User Data,u201d written by Nolen Scaife, Patrick Traynor, Kevin R. B. Butler of the University of Florida, and Henry Carter of Villanova University. u201cOur system (built only for Windows) is the first ransomware detection system that monitors user data for changes that may indicate transformation rather than attempting to identify ransomware by inspecting its execution (e.g., API call monitoring) or contents,u201d the researchers wrote. u201cThis allows CryptoDrop to detect suspicious activity regardless of the delivery mechanism or previous benign activity.u201d CryptoDrop was unveiled at the recent IEEE 36th International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems in Columbus, Ohio. The researchers wrote that CryptoDrop works alongside antimalware systems, detecting ransomware in ways that antivirus or intrusion prevention systems are not designed to do. In the paper, the researchers describe three classes of ransomware, differentiated by their activities against files that are ultimately encrypted. Class A, for example, overwrites file contents and has certain behaviors such as encrypting contents in place, while Class B ransomware may move the file before encrypting it and dropping back in its original spot; it may also rename files. Class C is the most damaging in that it creates new files with the encrypted contents and deletes or overwrites the original files. With that as a backdrop, CryptoDrop uses three primary and two secondary indicators to identify malicious file changes, the researchers wrote. Primary indicators are: file type changes that look for modifications to file byte values, which is deemed to be suspicious since files retain their type and formatting; a similarity measurement where, in this case, the sdhash function measures similarities in before and after versions of the same files to learn about any dissimilarities; and the third is Shannon Entropy, which measures an encrypted fileu2019s entropy as another indicator as to whether a file has been modified. Deletionu2014cases where many files are deletedu2014and file type funnelingu2014which occurs when an application reads a disparate number of files as it writesu2014are secondary indicators used by CryptoDrop. The researchers wrote that no benign program they tested triggered all three primary indicators, but the majority of ransomware samples examined did trigger all three. Unifying all three of these indicators in a single utility, the researchers said, is crucial for early and faster ransomware detection. CryptoDrop uses all of these factors to develop a reputation score, and fires off an alert to the user and suspends an offending process if it hits a certain threshold, the researchers said. The paper also provides data on specific ransomware families, with most showing a relative lack of diversity aside from CryptoLocker and Filcoder families. CTB-Locker and CryptoLocker samples tested had the highest median file loss. u201cWith few files lost, the burden to pay for victims of ransomware is reduced or removed, protecting users and dismantling the economy of attackers,u201d the researchers wrote. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658796cefc42b00293ae3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Dirt Cheap Stampado Ransomware Sells on Dark Web for $39", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/dirt-cheap-stampado-ransomware-sells-on-dark-web-for-39/119284/", "Date" : "July 14, 2016 , 12:35 pm", "Article" : "Dirt cheap ransomware selling for as little as $39 on the dark web hasu00a0security experts concerned the low price coupled with its potency could trigger a wave of new infections. The ransomware is called Stampado and besides its hallmark low price, the ransomware is also unique because it threatens to delete files every six hours post-infection. According to researchers at Heimdal Security Software, the ransomware is similar in technical functions and techniques to CryptoLocker. CryptoLocker is a sophisticated Trojan that uses advanced techniques such as File System Tunneling to avoid detection. Computers infected by the Stampado are given 96 hours to pay 1 bitcoin ($660) to decrypt files, according to Heimdal Security. Post-infection, attackers threaten to delete just one encrypted file from infected systems every six hours until the ransomware is paid. The sales pitch for the ransomware on dark web is straightforward. This ransomware is priced at $39 and comes with a lifetime license. Comparable ransomware sold on the dark web can range in price from a few hundred dollars to a few thousand dollars. CrytpoLocker sold for $3,000 in 2015, according to Heimdal Security. Ransomware-as-a-service, where buyers rent but do not own the ransomware code, can cost as little as $50 for a set period time of use. u201cGiven the price and how it mimics other ransomware such as Jigsaw and CryptoLocker, I suspect the people behind this ransomware are technically unsophisticated script kiddies,u201d said computer forensics expert Lawrence Abrams who maintains the BleepingComputer website. Researchers say they have not spotted Stampado in live campaigns yet. The authors behind the dark web sale of Stampado, it appears, have stolen from the marketing playbook of late night infomercials. The pitch reads: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kOp3qqjUUZc&feature=youtu.be Heimdal Security told Threatpost that the technical analysis of Stampado is forthcoming, so many question marks still remain as to itsu00a0capabilities. u201cThe differences between Stampado and other ransomware currently being spread reside more in the social engineering techniques used and in the pricing,u201d Heimdal Security said. The company reports the Stampado ransomware typically uses extensions EXE, BAT, DLL, SCR, and CMD to deliver the ransomware payload. The ransomware encryptsu00a0files and changes the file extension tou00a0.locked. u201cVictims will receive instructions on how to get their data back if they email the attackers at u2018teste [at] email [dot] comu2019. To show that they will retrieve their data, Stampado makers promise to decrypt one file as a guarantee and then provide payment instructions for the decryption key,u201d Heimdal Security told Threatpost. Stampado joins a recent wave of simple, if not hastily constructed, ransomware. For months, the makers of Jigsaw ransomware have continued their assault against victims despite the fact its encryption scheme has been defeated by security researchers. Another ransomware Ranscam, recently discovered by Ciscou2019s Talos Security Intelligence and Research Group, just deletes files instead of encrypting them. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658996cefc42b00293b20" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Ransomware is the Future of Consumer Cybercrime", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ransomware-is-the-future-of-consumer-cybercrime/109724/", "Date" : "December 4, 2014 , 4:02 pm", "Article" : "WASHINGTON D.C. u2014 Itu2019s 2020, bitter cold outside, youu2019re running late for work, and the Linux box that controls your car isnu2019t going to start unless you wire $20 worth of Bitcoin to an increasingly business-like criminal enterprise operating out of Eastern Europe. Of course itu2019s not 2020. And to date thereu2019s been no public instance of ransomware u2013 let alone regular malware u2013 targeting the onboard operating system of an automobile. However, in a panel discussion at Georgetown Lawu2019s u201cCybercrime 2020: The Future of Online Crime and Investigationsu201d conference this morning, Dino Dai Zovi, u201cHacker in Residenceu201d at the New York University Polytechnic School of Engineering, reasoned that if the price were low enough, nearly anyone would pay to unlock their car. To this, Michael Stawasz, the panelu2019s moderator and the deputy chief of the Computer Crime & Intellectual Property Section (CCIPS) at Department of Justice, wondered aloud if there would come a point where his refrigerator was pinching him for $.25 every time he tried to make a sandwich. Indeed the panel agreed that ransomware is likely the future of cybercrime, at least as far as consumers are concerned. u201cI think we are going to see ransomware scale well in the Internet of things,u201d Dai Zovi said. u201cItu2019s already targeting networked storage.u201d Martin Libicki, senior management scientist at RAND Corporation explained that so much of the cybercrime world is presently focused on converting information into money. When a payment processor at a retail location is compromised, in order to actually make money, the criminals then not only have to transfer that information away from the retailer but they also have to find a way of actually withdrawing money from those corresponding bank accounts or credit lines. Under the current system in the U.S., criminals are getting more efficient at translating data into money. However, the panel agreed, this will become more difficult as banking security becomes more sophisticated and as more secure payment forms like EMV become the norm. Contrast that with a simple, two-step ransomware scheme, which encrypts or locks a machine and demands direct payment to decrypt it or unlock it, and crypto and locker malware starts to seem immortal. As a caveat, Libicki forecasted that someone somewhere would certainly come up with a new way of monetizing information that no one in the panel, audience or world could possibly predict today. This, he said, is why itu2019s so hard to say what cybercrime will look like in the year 2020. Libicki later reasoned that itu2019s a wonder that so little ransomware attacks take place today. Moving away from consumer threats, he noted that the Iranians and the North Koreans seem to enjoy bricking computers. Bricking and ransomware are by no means the same, in that the former simply destroys machines while the latter renders one useless unless the user is willing to pay a fee. However the two attacks are similar in principle, in that they offer criminals the leverage of denying their victimsu2019 access to the machines on which they rely u2013 either permanently or temporarily. Rick Howard, the CSO of security firm Palo Alto Networks followed Libickyu2019s train of thought. He predicted that ransomware is also likely to become a favorite tool among hacktivist groups, merely seeking to disrupt operations or gain leverage in order to affect change. Howard further hammered the efficacy of ransomware, saying that the cybercrime business model is deeply concerned with customer service. Contrary to what many experts say and recommend, Howardu00a0 said that ransomware perpetrators are very good at restoring service for any victims that decide to pay the ransom. u201cRansomware is the future; itu2019s is going to touch the consumer hard,u201d Howard said. u201cBanks cover credit card fraud. Just wait until [criminals] start poking you for $20 per month.u201d In reality, ransomware has already impacted the consumer in a deep way u2014 some six years before the future-date envisioned by the panelists. The CrytpoLocker malware garnered heavy media attention earlier this year, and the opening remarks from the panelu2019s final member, Andrew Bonilla, the director of cybersecurity and public safety at Verizon Business, could suggest exactly why CryptoLocker was so exigent. u201cEvery high-level instance of cybercrime has a street-level component at some point,u201d Bonilla explained. u201cWhen you start to put a face to cybercrime it starts to make a difference. We need to be able to see who and what is affected and who is responsible for it.u201d Photo courtesy of Wikipedia user:Postdlf licensed under creative commons " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658a56cefc42b00293b38" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "As Ransomware Attacks Evolve, More Potential Victims Are at Risk", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/as-ransomware-attacks-evolve-more-potential-victims-are-at-risk/112103/", "Date" : "April 14, 2015 , 6:00 am", "Article" : "In early December, as most people were dealing with the stress ofu00a0looking for the perfect holiday gifts and planning out their upcoming celebrations, police officers in a small New England town were underu00a0a different sort of pressure. The vital files and data the Tewksbury Police Department needed to go about itsu00a0daily business had been encrypted and held for ransom, a scenario that is becoming increasingly common in enterprises and municipal agencies. The threat posed by ransomwareu2013especially crypto ransomware variants such as CryptoLocker, Crowti, Cryptowall and many othersu2013for years has mainly affected consumers. Unsuspecting victims visit a compromised Web site or open an infected attachment in a spam email and soon discover that their PCs are locked up, or worse yet, their hard drives have been encrypted and the malware is demanding a payment in order to set the victimsu2019u00a0data free. Itu2019s an incredibly frustrating and scary situation for the victims, particularly those who arenu2019t technically savvy and donu2019t understand what the consequences of the attack are. Although security experts almost always recommend that victims not pay the ransom to get their files back, for many victims, there is no other choice. Variants like CryptoLocker are sophisticated pieces of malware written by professionals with one goal in mind: making money. And their revenue streams depend upon their victims having no other options but to pay the ransom. For an individual victim, a ransomware infection may mean the loss of photos, financial information and other important files, but for a government agency or enterprise, it could spell disaster. When officers in the Tewksbury, Mass., police department first noticed that something was wrong on their network, they initially thought it was a typical malware infection. But it soon became clear that wasnu2019t the case. The department had been hit by crypto ransomware calledu00a0Keyholder, joining the ranks of several other law enforcement agencies across the United States that have suffered similar fates. Some departments have paid, some havenu2019t, but like all ransomware victims, theyu2019ve seen their lives disrupted one way or another. u201cMy initial thoughts were we were infected by some sort of a virus,u201d Tewksbury Police Chief Timothy Sheehan told The Boston Globe about the attack that hit his department on Dec. 8. u201cThen we determined it was a little bit bigger than that. It was more like cyberterrorism.u201d That may seem like a strong word for a malware infection, but for victims, the feeling of being terrorized is real. Even for a police department. The Tewksbury police tried to clean the infection themselves, with no luck, and then tried sending the infected hard drive to outside experts. That failed, too. Eventually, department officials came to the realization that they had no choice but to pay the attackersu2019 $500 ransom, a decision that many, if not most, ransomware victims come to at some point. Ransomware is a multimillion dollar business, and one that is growing quickly. CryptoLocker was perhaps the first ransomware variant to use strong encryption, but many others have followed suit in recent years, with newer variants using the Tor anonymity network for command and control to further hide their operations.u00a0Another ransomware variant is using the I2P anonymous network, which is similar to Tor. The attackers are evolving and constantly adapting their tactics and techniques to stay ahead of security defenses and law enforcement. And their victim bases are changing, as well. In March, researchers began noticing a newu00a0variant of CryptoLocker that specifically targets online gamers. This version is connected to a compromised Web site that isu00a0hosting the Angler exploit kit. When a victim hits the site, the kit uses an exploit for Adobe Flash to compromise the useru2019s machine and then download CryptoLocker. This particular variant looks for files specifically associated with popular games such as Call of Duty, Minecraft, Assassinu2019s Creed and others, and encrypts them before demanding the ransom. u201cEncrypting all these games demonstrates the evolution of crypto-ransomware as cybercriminal target new niches. Many young adults may not have any crucial documents or source code on their machine (even photographs are usually stored at Tumblr or Facebook), but surely most of them have a Steam account with a few games and an iTunes account full of music,u201d Vadim Kotov of security firm Bromium wrote in an analysis of the attack. u201cNon gamersu00a0are also likely to be frustrated by these attacks if they lose their personal data.u201d u00a0Like their brethren in other parts of the cybercrime underground, ransomware gangs are avaricious groups interested in generating as much profit as possible. That means that they must innovate and change their tactics constantly, as evidenced by the gaming-specific version of CryptoLocker.u00a0Some of these groups also are branching out into attacks such as malvertising. In October, security researchers discovered that one group that was using the Cryptowall 2.0 ransomware was leveraging malvertising campaigns on popular sites such as Yahoo to push their malware. That specific operation was generating as much as $25,000 a day for the attackers, a tidy sum for a dayu2019s work by any measure. This kind of campaign shows the close alliance that some of these ransomware gangs have with other parts of the cybercrime underground and also demonstrates their ability to adapt as the circumstances dictate. Law enforcement agencies in the U.S. and around the world have been focusing more and more of their attention on cybercrime of late, and ransomware is an ever-growing part of that problem. Recent operations by the FBI, Europolu00a0and other agencies have targeted ransomware gangs, with the CryptoLocker-GameOver Zeus takedown being the most notable win to date.u00a0While the attackers behind these schemes have years of success to build on, law enforcement officials believe that theyu2019re beginning to turn the tide. u201cWe get better and better after each such operation, and many more will undoubtedly follow,u201d said Troels Oerting, head of the European Cybercrime Center at Europol, after the operation that targeted CryptoLocker and GameOver Zeus. You can findu00a0all of Threatpostu2019s ransomware coverage in our Ransomware section.u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658ac6cefc42b00293b40" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "US, European Law Enforcement Carry Out Beebone Botnet Takedown", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/us-european-law-enforcement-carry-out-beebone-botnet-takedown/112099/", "Date" : "April 9, 2015 , 3:53 pm", "Article" : "A relatively small yet troublesome botnet has been shut down in a joint operation between U.S. and European law enforcement and a number of private security companies, including Kaspersky Lab. The takedown of Beebone was carried out on Wednesday by the FBI, the Department of Homeland Security, Europol and Dutch authorities. Also known as AAEH, Beebone was a polymorphic downloader used to infect 12,000 computers worldwide and distribute banking malware, ransomware and other spyware. An advisory from DHS said Beebone bots could spread across networks, or infect machines via removable drives, or as ZIP or RAR attachments. The advisory said the malware is capable of changing its form with every infection, morphing every two hours in some cases. DHS said the downloader has been used spread Zeus, ZeroAccess, Cutwail and CryptoLocker malware. In addition to its polymorphic nature, Beebone goes to great lengths to evade detection by antivirus and IPS tools. It does so by blocking connections to IP address blocks associated with security companiesu2019 networks, or by disabling antivirus and other security tools on infected machines. The takedown is the latest cooperative effort between international law enforcement agencies. The Dutch National High Tech Crime Unit and the Joint Cybercrime Action Taskforce led the operation along with Europolu2019s European Cybercrime Centre (EC3), the FBI, andu00a0U.S-basedu00a0representatives at the National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force- International Cyber Crime Coordination Cell (IC4). Kaspersky Lab, Shadowserver and Intel Security also assisted in the takedown, which was carried out on Wednesday when the botnet was sinkholed. All the domains used for communication by the botnet were seized and traffic from victims to command and control servers redirected. u201cThis successful operation shows the importance of international law enforcement working together with private industry to fight the global threat of cybercrime,u201d said Europol deputy director of operations Wil van Gemert. u201cWe will continue our efforts to take down botnets and disrupt the core infrastructures used by cybercriminals to carry out a variety of crimes. Together with the EU Member States and partners around the globe, our aim is to protect people worldwide against these criminal activities.u201d Europol said there are five million unique AAEH, or Beebone, samples in the wild. More than 205,000 samples were collected from 23,000 infected systems in the last two years. Most of the infections occurred in the United States, but computers in 195 countries were infected. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658cc6cefc42b00293b73" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CoinVault Ransomwareu2019s Free File Decrypt A Show of Good Faith", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/coinvault-ransomwares-free-file-decrypt-a-show-of-good-faith/109371/", "Date" : "November 14, 2014 , 1:59 pm", "Article" : "UPDATE: A prior version of this story incorrectly defined VSS as vulnerability scanning systems when in fact it refers to volume shadow copy service, which is a Windows automatic data backup and recovery mechanism. Thanks to commenter Rudy for pointing this out. The courteous CoinVault ransomware offers its victims the opportunity to recover one file for free, as a sort of in-good-faith display that paying the decryption ransom will in fact restore locked files. The new ransomware is otherwise fairly similar to contemporary threats such as CryptoLocker, Crowti, and CryptoWall. All of this malware encrypts the files on the hard drives of their victims and demands ransom payment in order for the user to recover those files. It also deploys the same 256-bit AES cryptography, a similar interface, and disables VSS (volume shadow copy service). However, Tyler Moffitt of Webroot claims this is the first ransomware to entice users with free file recovery. u201cWhatu2019s unique about this variant that I wanted to share with you all is that this is the first Encrypting Ransomware that Iu2019ve seen which actually gives you a free decrypt,u201d Moffit wrote on the Webroot Threat Blog this morning. u201cIt will let you pick any single file that you need after encryption and will decrypt it for you.u201d To be clear: Moffitt tested the free decrypt feature and it actually works. Moffitt suggests that the free file recovery feature could very well increase the number of users willing to pay the ransom required to decrypt their files. Now that CoinVault is out there, itu2019s very likely detectable by any decent antivirus solution. However, Moffitt notes that its authors could very well build a zero-day version of the threat, which would not be detected.u00a0 Therefore, he says a regular data backup routine is the best protection against this and similar malware. CoinVault is also somewhat novel in the way it runs a 24-hour countdown in its user interface. While a lot of ransomware merely throws away the encryption key once the allotted payment period expires, CoinVault just adds some more Bitcoins to the total and restarts the clock. That process is repeated until the user pays the fee in full. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658d36cefc42b00293b7f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Forensics Method Quickly Identifies CryptoLocker Encrypted Files", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/forensics-method-quickly-identifies-cryptolocker-encrypted-files/103049/", "Date" : "November 27, 2013 , 3:38 pm", "Article" : "If CryptoLocker is teaching enterprise IT and security people anything, itu2019s that backup is king. The ransomware is unforgiving; it will find and encrypt documents on local and shared drives and it will not give them back. Experts donu2019t advise victims to pay the ransom, which means infected computers must be wiped, and lost files must be recovered from backup. However, one Boston-area forensics specialist and malware analyst working for a large enterprise may have found a clue as to identifying the files CryptoLocker encrypts, which could mean the difference between restoring terabytes of backup data versus a few gigabytes. The infection at this particular enterprise happened in October. A user fell victim to a phishing email and followed a link to a site where CryptoLocker awaited. The malware was detected within a couple of hours by the firmu2019s antivirus, but not before it had encrypted thousands of files on the local drive and drives mapped to the useru2019s laptop, and presented the user with the now-familiar bitmap image explaining the attackeru2019s demand for ransom. The laptop was pulled from the network, wiped and analyzed. Thatu2019s when the analyst, who goes by the Twitter handle @Bug_Bear and asked not to be otherwise identified, noticed that the NTFS Master File Table creation and file modified dates on the encrypted files were unchanged. He then compared those results to the Master File Table from the Windows file server as well, using a pair of tools, analyzeMFT and MFTParser, to go through close to 10GB of Master File Table data. u201cIdentifying some known encrypted files by the $FN file name, I noted the only date in the MFT record that coincided with the infection was the MFT Entry Date or date the MFT record itself was modified,u201d he wrote on his Security Braindump blog. u201cUsing this, I filtered out all records that had $SI or $FN time stamps that preceded this.u201d Through this method, he was able to identify more than 4,000 files that had been encrypted by CryptoLocker and recover those files from backup. He told Threatpost that he believes the malware uses a technique called File System Tunneling to avoid detection, and thatu2019s what led him to find the encrypted files. u201cIn NTFS, if you delete a file and then recreate it with the same name in the same folder within 15 seconds, it takes on the attributes of the original files; all the file dates would match up,u201d he said. u201cI think thatu2019s what weu2019re seeing. The only date that wonu2019t change is the NTFS Master File Table date which is the date it was created in the database for NTFS itself. That will change and thatu2019s what Iu2019m seeing and thatu2019s what I used to find these files.u201d CryptoLocker, unlike other ransomware, encrypts files and then demands a ransom for the decryption key. It is spreading primarily through phishing campaigns heralding phony Federal Express or UPS tracking notifications. Victims are told they must make payments via MoneyPak or Bitcoin before a 72-hour payment deadline expires and the files are lost forever. Bug_Bear called the attack straightforward, efficient and effective. He also said backup is a companyu2019s best defense, along with a solid incident response plan. u201cThe only way I know of to find these files is what I used,u201d he said. u201cIu2019m thankful for other people out there writing these tools because if I didnu2019t have these tools, [parsing] 10GB of hexadecimal would be quite the chore.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658e26cefc42b00293b99" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CryptoLocker Variant Coming After Gamers", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cryptolocker-variant-coming-after-gamers/111611/", "Date" : "March 12, 2015 , 3:57 pm", "Article" : "Gamers may soon be feeling the pain of crypto-ransomware. A variant of CryptoLocker is in the wild that goes after data files associated with 20 different online games, locking downloadable content in an attempt to target younger computer users. Researchers at Bromium today said an unnamed compromised website is serving the malware. Victims are redirected by a Flash exploit to a site hosting the Angler exploit kit, and Angler drops the CryptoLocker variant. u201cThe website is based on WordPress and could have been compromised by any one of the numerous WP exploits,u201d wrote Vadim Kotov in an advisory for Bromium. u201cAdditionally, the URL where the malicious Flash file is hosted keeps changing.u201d Kotov said the attackers forgo typical iframe redirects and instead use a Flash file wrapped in an invisible div tag, likely in an attempt to evade detection. The malware proceeds through a number of checks for the presence of virtual machines or antivirus before dropping a Flash exploit for CVE-2015-0311 or an Internet Explorer exploit CVE-2013-2551. The malware behaves like a typical CryptoLocker infection, presenting the victim with a banner explaining that files have been encrypted, and a ransom must be paid with Bitcoin in order for a decryption key to be sent to the victim. There are also instructions to make payments over Tor if the decryption site is not working. More than 50 file extensions associated with video games are targeted by this variant, in addition to images, documents, iTunes files and more. A number of popular single-player games including Call of Duty, Minecraft, Half Life 2, Elder Scrolls, Skyrim, Assassinu2019s Creed and others are affected, as are online games such as World of Warcraft, Day Z and League of Legends, as well as a number of EA Sports, Valve and Bethesda games. Steam gaming software is also in the crosshairs, Bromium said. u201cEncrypting all these games demonstrates the evolution of crypto-ransomware as cybercriminal target new niches. Many young adults may not have any crucial documents or source code on their machine (even photographs are usually stored at Tumblr or Facebook), but surely most of them have a Steam account with a few games and an iTunes account full of music,u201d Kotov wrote. u201cNon gamersu00a0are also likely to be frustrated by these attacks if they lose their their personal data.u201d Some of the files the variant goes after are often impossible to restore; those include user profile data, saved games, in-game maps and mods, Kotov wrote. The Bromium advisory goes into more detail about command and control communication and encryption mechanisms. The experts advise gamers to back up their files on an external hard drive that is not connected to the Internet. u201cAs more file categories are infected, a broader audience is affected,u201d Kotov said. u201cThe attackers are also getting better at incorporating BitCoin code directly into their projects, which isnu2019t a good sign.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658e66cefc42b00293ba0" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Obama Administration Seeks More Legal Power to Disrupt Botnets", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/obama-administration-seeks-more-legal-power-to-disrupt-botnets/111596/", "Date" : "March 12, 2015 , 10:31 am", "Article" : "The federal government is seeking more legal power to step in and shut down botnets through an amendment to the existing criminal law, which would allow the Department of Justice to obtain injunctions to disrupt these malicious networks. The Obama administration has proposed an amendment to existing United Stated federal law that would give it a more powerful tool to go after botnets such as GameOver Zeus, Asprox and others. In recent years, Justice, along with private security firms and law enforcement agencies in Europe, have taken down various incarnations of a number of major botnets, including GameOver Zeus and Coreflood. These actions have had varying levels of success, with the GOZ takedown being perhaps the most effective, as it also had the effect of disrupting the infrastructure used by the CryptoLocker ransomware. As part of those takedown operations, the Department of Justice files civil lawsuits against alleged operators of the botnets, and sometimes their hosting providers, and also obtains injunctions that enable the government to sinkhole C2 servers or take physical control of those machines. Now, the administration would like to expand those powers. u201cOne powerful tool that the department has used to disrupt botnets and free victim computers from criminal malware is the civil injunction process.u00a0 Current law gives federal courts the authority to issue injunctions to stop the ongoing commission of specified fraud crimes or illegal wiretapping, by authorizing actions that prevent a continuing and substantial injury.u00a0 This authority played a crucial role in the departmentu2019s successful disruption of the Coreflood botnet in 2011 and the Gameover Zeus botnet in 2014,u201d Leslie R. Caldwell, assistant attorney general in the criminal division at the Department of Justice, wrote in a blog post explaining the administrationu2019s position. u201cThe problem is that current law only permits courts to consider injunctions for limited crimes, including certain frauds and illegal wiretapping.u00a0 Botnets, however, can be used for many different types of illegal activity.u00a0 They can be used to steal sensitive corporate information, to harvest email account addresses, to hack other computers, or to execute DDoS attacks against web sites or other computers.u00a0 Yet u2014 depending on the facts of any given case u2014 these crimes may not constitute fraud or illegal wiretapping.u00a0 In those cases, courts may lack the statutory authority to consider an application by prosecutors for an injunction to disrupt the botnets in the same way that injunctions were successfully used to incapacitate the Coreflood and Gameover Zeus botnets.u201d In order to obtain an injunction in these cases, the government would need to sue the defendants in civil court and show that its suit is likely to succeed on its merits. u201cThe Administrationu2019s proposed amendment would add activities like the operation of a botnet to the list of offenses eligible for injunctive relief.u00a0 Specifically, the amendment would permit the department to seek an injunction to prevent ongoing hacking violations in cases where 100 or more victim computers have been hacked.u00a0 This numerical threshold focuses the injunctive authority on enjoining the creation, maintenance, operation, or use of a botnet, as well as other widespread attacks on computers using malicious software (such as u201cransomwareu201d ),u201d Caldwell wrote. One hundred machines is a low number for a botnet, and indeed would barely even qualify as a botnet in todayu2019s environment, which includes many networks comprising hundreds of thousands or millions of compromised PCs. Mark Jaycox, a legislative analyst for the EFF, said that the proposal from the Obama administration may be overreaching. u201cThe blog post posits that IP/trade secret concerns are reasonsu00a0that are not already covered to take down botnets. Thatu2019s au00a0civil/private context and weu2019ve seen private companies use the Lanhamu00a0Act to handle that angle.u00a0Seems like the DOJ is pushing for a more expansive law. As of now, weu2019veu00a0seen DOJ been able to handle takedowns with the resources and laws thatu00a0are already provided to them,u201d Jaycox said. u201cWeu2019d like to see a particular use case where they couldnu2019t use theiru00a0already aggressive interpretation of the current law to take down botnets.u00a0If anything, we should be narrowing the current anti-hacking statute andu00a0computer laws becauseu00a0of their excessive breadth.u201d n " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658f06cefc42b00293bb3" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CryptoLocker Email Attachments Sent to Tens of Millions in UK", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cryptolocker-email-attachments-sent-to-tens-of-millions-in-uk/102951/", "Date" : "November 18, 2013 , 11:32 am", "Article" : "Tens of millions of online banking customers in the U.K. are the targets of a dangerous spam campaign enticing users to open an attachment containing the CryptoLocker ransomware. The U.K.u2019s National Crime Agencyu2019s National Cyber Crime Unit posted an advisory late last week warning people to be vigilant about opening email attachments, in particular those from small- and medium-sized banks and financial institutions. u201cThe emails may be sent out to tens of millions of UK customers, but appear to be targeting small and medium businesses in particular,u201d the advisory said. u201cThis spamming event is assessed as a significant risk.u201d The attachments purport to be about a number of potential issues with a user account, including details of suspicious transactions, invoices, voicemails or faxes. Instead, they drop the ransomware on the victimu2019s machine. u201cThe NCA are actively pursuing organized crime groups committing this type of crime,u201d said Lee Miles, Deputy Head of the NCCU. u201cWe are working in cooperation with industry and international partners to identify and bring to justice those responsible and reduce the risk to the public.u201d US-CERT issued an advisory two weeks ago about a spike in CryptoLocker infections. Unlike other ransomware scams, CryptoLocker is capable of finding and encrypting files from a number of network resources and then displaying a banner to the victim demanding a ransom for the decryption key. A clock on the banner ticks down to a time when the private key will be destroyed. More familiar ransomware schemes put up a similar banner, but will lock a user out of their machine until the ransom is paid. The attackers, in this case, are demanding u00a3536, according to the NCA, which is approximately $850 US. u00a0Victims are told they have to make their payments to the attackers via Bitcoin or MoneyPak. Much like law enforcement in the U.S., the NCA advises victims not to pay the ransom demand, adding the caveat that there is no guarantee the criminals would decrypt the files in question. Instead, the NCA asks victims to report CryptoLocker infections to Action Fraud, the U.K.u2019s national fraud and Internet crime reporting center. CryptoLocker has been in circulation for a few months, but infections started surging last month, according to a US-CERT advisory. In the U.S., the attackers have found success using phone Federal Express or UPS tracking notification emails as a lure. The malware sniffs out files in a number of network resources, including shared network drives, removable media such as USB sticks, external hard drives, network file shares and some cloud storage services. u201cIf one computer on a network becomes infected, mapped network drives could also become infected,u201d the US-CERT advisory warns, adding that victims should immediately disconnect their computers from their wired or wireless networks immediately upon seeing the red-screen notice put up by CryptoLocker that provides details on how to recover the encrypted files. Upon infection, the malware establishes contact with the attacker and stores the asymmetric encryption key there. Researchers at Kaspersky Lab said CryptoLocker uses domain generation algorithm to generate up to 1,000 domain names from which to connect to the attackeru2019s command and control infrastructure. During a three-day period in October, more than 2,700 domains tried to contact three CryptoLocker domains sinkholed by Kaspersky. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3658fd6cefc42b00293bc9" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "US-CERT Warns CryptoLocker Infections on the Rise", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/us-cert-warns-cryptolocker-infections-on-the-rise/102840/", "Date" : "November 6, 2013 , 1:28 pm", "Article" : "CryptoLocker is a devious evolution of now-familiar ransomware schemes in which the malware encrypts files it finds on a number of network resources and demands a ransom for the decryption key. US-CERT issued an advisory today warning businesses and consumers of the risks presented by CryptoLocker, which has been on the radar of security experts since late October. US-CERT said infections are on the rise and urge victims not to pay the ransom, instead report it to the FBIu2019s Internet Crime Complaint Center. Victims, meanwhile, have three days to make their payments to the attackers, either via MoneyPak or Bitcoin. u201cSome victims have claimed online that they paid the attackers and did not receive the promised decryption key,u201d the US-CERT advisory said. CryptoLocker is spreading via a number of phishing campaigns, including some from legitimate businesses, or through phony Federal Express or UPS tracking notifications. Some victims said CryptoLocker has appeared after a separate botnet infection, US-CERT said. The malware sniffs out files in a number of network resources, including shared network drives, removable media such as USB sticks, external hard drives, network file shares and some cloud storage services. u201cIf one computer on a network becomes infected, mapped network drives could also become infected,u201d the US-CERT advisory warns, adding that victims should immediately disconnect their computers from their wired or wireless networks immediately upon seeing the red-screen notice put up by CryptoLocker that provides details on how to recover the encrypted files. Once the malware latches on to a victim machine, it connects to the attackeru2019s command server and stores the asymmetric encryption key that would unlock the victimu2019s files. Costin Raiu, director of the Global Research and Analysis Team at Kaspersky Lab, said CryptoLocker uses a domain generation algorithm giving the malware up to 1,000 possible domain names from which to connect to its command and control infrastructure. Raiu added that Kaspersky sinkholed three domains and monitored more than 2,700 domains trying to contact those domains during a three-day period in mid-October with most of the victims in the U.S. and Great Britain. Malware such as CryptoLocker is not without precedent. The GPCode malware used RSA keys for encryption, starting with 660-bit RSA before upgrading to 1024, u201cputting it perhaps only in the realm of NSAu2019s cracking power,u201d Raiu said. u201cCryptoLocker uses a solid encryption scheme as well, which so far appears uncrackable,u201d Raiu added. Meanwhile, security blog Krebs on Security reported today that the attackers behind CryptoLocker may be softening on their imposed 72-hour payment deadline. Since the attackers require payment through third parties, options that victims may not be familiar with, it could be that the attackers are losing out on some money. u201cThey decided thereu2019s little sense in not accepting the ransom money a week later if the victim is still willing to pay to get their files back,u201d Lawrence Abrams of BleepingComputer.com told Krebs. Abrams added that while CERT and some vendors may be advising victims not to pay, some are caving in because they cannot afford to be without their lost files for a significant amount of time. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659016cefc42b00293bce" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "FBI, European Authorities Go After GameOver Zeus Botnet", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/fbi-european-authorities-go-after-gameover-zeus-botnet/106405/", "Date" : "June 2, 2014 , 10:53 am", "Article" : "UPDATEu2013Law enforcement agencies in Europe and the United States, including Europol and the FBI, ran a coordinated takedown of the u00a0GameOver Zeus botnet on Friday, seizing servers and disrupting the botnetu2019s operation. Authorities say that the same botnet has been used to distribute the CryptoLocker ransomware and theyu2019re now looking for a 30-year-old Russian whom they say is connected to the operation of the botnet. GameOver is a separate strain of malware from the more well-known Zeus Trojan and the botnet built using GameOver has proven to be a hard target for researchers and law enforcement. The GameOver Zeus botnet uses a P2P architecture, which makes it difficult to disrupt because of the decentralized command-and-control infrastructure. Many malware authors and botnet operators have shifted to this architecture in the last few years because of the advantages it offers in resisting takedowns and removal attempts. GameOver Zeus is used as part of a wire fraud schemeu00a0that involves stealing financial credentials from infected usersu2019 computers and then sending money from the victimsu2019 accounts to those controlled by the attackers.u00a0GameOver often is distributed to victims through other botnets, specifically the Cutwail botnet. On May 30, authorities working out of the European Cybercrime Center (EC3) worked with a number of security companies and researchers to takedown the botnet and seize the servers that were part of the botnet. The Shadowserver Foundation, Abuse.ch, CrowdStrike, Microsoft and several other companies were part of the takedown. The FBI has identified Evgeniy Mikhailovich Bogachev as the alleged controller of the GameOver Zeus operation. u201cThis big, and very successful, operation has been an important test of the EU Member Statesu2019 ability to act fast, decisively and coordinated against a dangerous criminal network that has been stealing money and information from victims in the EU and all over the globe. Over many days and nights cyber police from several EU countries in EC3 operation rooms maximized the impact of this joint investigation. We get better and better after each such operation, and many more will undoubtedly follow,u201d said Troels Oerting, head of the EC3. The U.S. government sinkholed some of the servers involved in the GameOver Zeus botnet, redirecting traffic from infected machines to servers they control. This is a common tactic used as part of botnet takedowns, but is not always completely effective, especially against P2P botnets that donu2019t rely on one or handful of key C&C servers. On Monday, the US-CERT issued a technical warning about Zeus GameOver, telling users to be wary of the malware. u201cGOZ, which is often propagated through spam and phishing messages, is primarily used by cybercriminals to harvest banking information, such as login credentials, from a victimu2019s computer. Infected systems can also be used to engage in other malicious activities, such as sending spam or participating in distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks,u201d the warning says. Kaspersky Lab has released a removal tool for GameoverZeus that can disinfect compromised systems. David Emm, senior expert with Kasperskyu2019s Global Research and Analysis Team, said the many variants of Zeus make it a difficult threat to eradicate. u201cThese types of threats are not uncommon u2013 in our virus lab we see about 315,000 unique samples every day, including banking Trojans, ransomware and many other types of malware. Looking at Zeus, whose original code has been available on the Internet for years, it can be seen that there are literally hundreds of thousands of variants of it, and one of the reasons for this is that when attackers take control of a useru2019s computer they tend to want to keep control of it for as long as possible,u201d he said. This is not the first time that researchers and authorities have gone after a Zeus botnet. In 2012, Microsoft took down some servers used as C&C points for Zeus, but because GameOver Zeus uses a P2P architecture, the operation didnu2019t put a dent in that malware operation. u201cThis operation disrupted a global botnet that had stolen millions from businesses and consumers as well as a complex ransomware scheme that secretly encrypted hard drives and then demanded payments for giving users access to their own files and data,u201d said Deputy Attorney General Cole. u201cWe succeeded in disabling GameOver Zeus and Cryptolocker only because we blended innovative legal and technical tactics with traditional law enforcement tools and developed strong working relationships with private industry experts and law enforcement counterparts in more than 10 countries around the world.u201d The Department of Justice charged Bogachev with conspiracy, wire fraud, computer hacking, bank fraud and money laundering in connection with the operation of GameOver Zeus. Authorities also say he was responsible for running the CryptoLocker infrastructure, a highly profitable ransomware operation. This article was edited on June 2 to add the FBIu2019s comments. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659056cefc42b00293bd7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Hollywood Hospital Pays $17K Ransom to Decrypt Files", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/hollywood-hospital-pays-17k-ransom-to-decrypt-files/116325/", "Date" : "February 18, 2016 , 12:47 pm", "Article" : "After being knocked offline for nearly two weeks, officials at a California hospital that was hit with ransomware elected on Wednesday to pay attackers. The Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center (HPMC) shut down computers on its network on Feb. 5, after attackers allegedly asked for 9,000 Bitcoin, or just over $3 million USD, to unlock medical files stored on its system. While the hospital didnu2019t pay anything close to that figure, they did pay 40 Bitcoin, or roughly $17,000 USD on Monday this week, according to a notice published last night by the center. HPMC president and CEO Allen Stefanek defended the hospitalu2019s actions, saying it was the quickest way to solve their problem. u201cThe quickest and most efficient way to restore our systems and administrative functions was to pay the ransom and obtain the decryption key,u201d Stefanek wrote, u201cIn the best interest of restoring normal operations, we did this.u201d While surprising, the move actually echoes sentiments made by Joseph Bonavolonta, Assistant Special Agent in Charge of the CYBER and Counterintelligence Program in the FBIu2019s Boston office, during a conference last fall. u201cTo be honest, we often advise people just to pay the ransom,u201d Bonavolonta told a crowd at the Cyber Security Summit in October. That statement came just a few months after the agency first began warning users of ransomwareu2013CryptoWall and CryptoLocker in particular. In that statement the FBI encourages users visit either the Department of Homeland Securityu2019s U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team (CERT) CryptoLocker webpage for help. Paying the ransom is widely viewed as a bad practice. As experts have pointed out previously thereu2019s no guarantee victims will receive their files back. On top of that the move incentivizes the attacker to create more ransomware. As we saw at last weeku2019s Security Analyst Summit, when it comes to the healthcare sector, security tends to be woefully out of date, something that can compound problems stemming from ransomware. Jornt van der Wiel, a security researcher with Kaspersky Labu2019s Global Research and Analysis Team who presented at SAS rattled off a list on Thursday of potentialu00a0outcomesu00a0that couldu00a0resultu00a0ifu00a0a cybercriminal had au00a0hospital wrapped around their finger. u201cEngineers put a lot of effort into creating really useful medical technologies and can sometimes forget about protecting the medical computers. A hacker could get access to these devices and obtain all the information about patients, their personal data, treatment cases etc. Or even worse u2013 they could try to interfere with these devices and reprogram them u2013 and that could cause direct physical harm or an inaccurate diagnosis and things like that,u201d van der Wiel said. Van der Wiel, who called the HPMC attack a u201cworrying trend,u201d was part of a Kaspersky Lab team who worked with the Netherlandsu2019 National High Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU) last year to buildu00a0a repository of available decryption keys and release a decryption app for victims of another form of ransomware, Coinvault. Doctors and other administrators at HPMC apparently had to go analog in wake of the attack u2013 a report in the Los Angeles Times claims that in lieu of computers hospital staff were forced to use pen and paper to keep notes on patients. Stefanek insists the hospitalu2019s systems are cleared of the malware and that he has no evidence that any patient of employee information was accessed. Additionally,u00a0while hisu00a0letter neglects to mention it, both the FBI and the LAPD, who were first notified of the attack two weeks ago, are still looking into the incident. A handful of senators have spoken out over the past few months urging the U.S. to do more to combat ransomware. Senators Ron Johnson (R-Wis) and Tom Carper (D-Del.) issued memos to the Justice and Homeland Security Departments in December encouragingu00a0movement on the issue. Later that month Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) wrote FBI Director James Comey to do more or less the same, but also asked for clarification on Bonavolontau2019s statements on howu00a0victims should pay the criminals, and whether or not they were reflective of the FBI as a whole. u201cThe FBI should explore all legal options for stopping the successful use of ransomware,u201du00a0he said in the letter. u201cNot only should these efforts focus on cyber criminals conducting encryption attacks, they should also target the ransom payments from victims to cyber criminals.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659066cefc42b00293bd9" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Locky Ransomware Borrows Tricks from Dridex", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/locky-ransomware-borrows-tricks-from-dridex/116304/", "Date" : "February 18, 2016 , 6:59 am", "Article" : "Itu2019s been difficult to keep track of all the different strains of ransomware that have plagued users over the last year or two. Unlike many of themu00a0the latest to grab headlines is spreading through a decidedly old school vector: document-based macros. Named Locky, the ransomwareu00a0appears to borrow a technique from the Dridex banking malware. Victims receive an email with an attachment disguised as an invoice. Once the user opens the document, a rigged Word file, theyu2019re encouraged to enable macros. After doing so the malware downloads an executable, executes and begins encrypting usersu2019 files. Like most strains of ransomware, text files left behind by the attackers warn victims their files have been encrypted and that to retrieve them theyu2019ll need to download Tor, visit a special site, and pay a certain amount of Bitcoin. Several firms have reportedly come across the ransomware, including a trio of researchers at Palo Alto Networksu00a0who observed more thanu00a0446,000 sessions initiated by Bartalex, a macro downloader that dropped Locky onto machines across the United States, Canada, and Australia. Bartalex has previously been spotted dropping malware like Pony loader and the Dyre banking Trojan though Word and Excel macros. The connection between Dridex and Locky doesnu2019t appear to be accidental, researchers claim. Brandon Levene, Micah Yates, and Rob Downs, threat researchers with Palo Alto, believe thereu2019s a connection between the two groups, especially given the u201csimilar styles of distribution, overlapping filenames, and an absence of campaigns.u201d According to Lawrence Abrams, who blogs at BleepingComputer.com and has also seen Locky, the ransomware renames files with a random series of numbers and letters, followed by the formatu201d.locky.u201d Perhaps more troubling, the malware encrypts data on unmapped network shares, a trend Abrams predicts may be the new normal when it comes to ransomware. u201cEncrypting data on unmapped network shares is trivial to code and the fact that we saw the recent DMA Locker with this feature and now in Locky, it is safe to say that it is going to become the norm,u201d Abrams wrote Tuesday. According to another group ofu00a0researchers at Fortinet, who also came across the malware, the way it reports to command and control servers and its domain generation algorithm capabilities u2013 which resemble CryptoLockeru2019s u2013 suggest the criminals behind Locky are experienced. Kevin Beaumont, who blogs about security on his personal Medium blog, wrote Wednesday that he was able to intercept Locky traffic and record the following visualization:  Beaumont, who tweeted at one point he was seeing 3,680 successful Locky infections an hour via a command and control domain he registered, estimated that at its current rate, approximately a quarter of a million of PCs could be infected after just three days.  Earlier this week reports surfaced that ransomware managed to cripple a Los Angeles area hospital, Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center. According to a local Fox affiliate hospital workers shut down machines there earlier this month after attackers demanded 9,000 Bitcoin, or just over $3M to unlock their records. According to the Los Angeles Times officials at the hospital didnu2019t call the Los Angeles Police Departmentu00a0until last week and the FBI stepped in from there. In the meantime doctors have reportedly gone analog: Relying on paper notes and documents to get by. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659076cefc42b00293bda" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CryptoLocker Ransomware Competitor May Have Fatal Flaw", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cryptolocker-ransomware-competitor-may-have-fatal-flaw/106323/", "Date" : "May 28, 2014 , 2:08 pm", "Article" : "CryptoLocker certainly changed the ransomware game last year when it threatened its victims with the loss of important files if a timely ransom payment was not made. Reportedly, criminal gangs utilizing this dangerous type of ransomware were earning hundreds of thousands of dollars per month. Naturally seeing the opportunity for financial gain, competitor pieces of malware are popping up and buildingu00a0on what CryptoLocker started. The latest is a sample spotted by researchers at Bromium Labs that theyu2019ve called CryptoDefense. Unlike CryptoLocker which spread primarily via phishing and spam emails, Bromium experts say CryptoDefense is compromising computers via drive-by downloads. Victims are being popped by a Java exploit, which then downloads and executes the malware in stages. Eventually, the victim is presented with a message that files on the hard drive have been encrypted and they must pay a ransom by a deadline in order to have them decrypted, or the price goes up. If the ransom demand is ignored, the victim is threatened with permanent destruction of hisu00a0files. Bromiumu2019s Vadim Kotov wrote on the companyu2019s website that while CryptoDefense is a competitor to CryptoLocker, there are similarities between the two attacks, including payment methods (Bitcoin), public-key encryption used and that some of the same file extensions are targeted by both. CryptoDefense, like CryptoLocker, will go after Office, photos and movie files, but it also targets source code files and SSL certificates. It also forces the victim to visit the attackeru2019s website in order to make ransom payments; CryptoLocker provides its own GUI for this purpose. Kotov, however, did find an implementation flaw in CryptoDefense that could allow for the decryption key to be found on the victimu2019s computer. The CryptoLocker key is stored on the attackeru2019s server, and the same is true for CryptoDefense. u201cItu2019s a bad coding flaw. If you are aware of it, the private key is available on the hard drive,u201d said Rahul Kashyap, chief security architect at Bromium, who added that the bug will certainly be fixed in newer versions of the malware since itu2019s been outed. u201cIf the victims are sophisticated folks, and understand technology and encryption, they can get the keys themselves.u201d Several experts, meanwhile, figured out clever ways to find and recover the encrypted files targeted by CryptoLocker by using Windows shadow copies and system restore. Kotov said that method wonu2019t work with this attack. u201cIt makes sure system tools cannot recover the files u2013 the shadow copies are removed and system restore is disabled,u201d he said. Bromium has been tracking CryptoDefense since February, Kotov said. u201cIt appears that by the end of March there were at least 11,000 detections (the real picture might be bigger already) and $34,000 were earned by the gang behind this,u201d he wrote. u201cIn contrast, CryptoLocker has made millions of dollars already.u00a0So clearly, underground gangs are warming up to the idea of crypto-ransomware and we expect similar ransomware to come up.u201d CryptoLocker infections began in earnest last fall. Victims have three days to make payments via MoneyPak or Bitcoin, though some victims reported having paid the ransom and did not receive a decryption key as promised, according ot a US-CERT advisory last November. Not only are local files encrypted, but CryptoLocker also looks for documents on shared network drives mapped to the victimu2019s computer, as well as removable media, external hard drives and even some cloud storage services. Costin Raiu, director of the Global Research and Analysis Team at Kaspersky Lab, said CryptoLocker uses a domain generation algorithm giving the malware up to 1,000 possible domain names from which to connect to its command and control infrastructure. Raiu added that Kaspersky sinkholed three domains and monitored more than 2,700 domains trying to contact those domains during a three-day period last October with most of the victims in the U.S. and Great Britain. u201cWe think this is going to become a pretty big problem, an underworld race of sorts,u201d said Kashyap. u201cCryptoLocker is supposed to have made $27 million, so copycat versions are coming. Criminal gangs see this as a way to make quick money. Now with this enormous currency in Bitcoin thatu2019s being leveraged by the malware, we fear this is going to be a much bigger problem.u201d This article was updated at 3:30 p.m. ET with additional comments from Bromium Labs. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659116cefc42b00293bed" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Ransomware Looming As Major Long-Term Threat", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/ransomware-looming-as-major-long-term-threat/111265/", "Date" : "February 26, 2015 , 8:00 am", "Article" : "On May 30, 2014, law enforcement officials from the FBI and Europol seized a series of servers that were being used to help operate the GameOver Zeus botnet, an especially pernicious and troublesome piece of malware. The authorities also began an international manhunt for a Russian man they said was connected to operating the botnet, but the most significant piece of the operation was a side effect: the disruption of the infrastructure used to distribute the CryptoLocker ransomware. The takedown was the result of months of investigation by law enforcement and security researchers, many of whom were collaborating as part of a working group that had come together to dig into CryptoLockeru2019s inner workings. The cadre of researchers included reverse engineers, mathematicians and botnet experts, and the group quickly discovered that the gang behind CryptoLocker, which emerged in 2013, knew what it was doing. Not only was the crew piggybacking on the GameOver Zeus infections to reach a broader audience, but it also was using a sophisticated domain-generation algorithm to generate fresh command-and-control domains quickly. That kept the CryptoLocker crew ahead of researchers and law enforcement for a time. u201cThe interesting thing is all the opsec involved in this. The architecture thought out with this was really clear. The people working on this really sat down and architected and then engineered something,u201d said Lance James of Deloitte & Touche, who spoke about the takedown effort atu00a0Black Hat last year. u201cIt took a lot more people on our side to hit it harder.u201d CryptoLocker has become the poster child for a new wave of threats that are designed to relieve victims of their money through the threat of losing all of their files. The malware, like its descendants Cryptowall, Critroni, Crowti and many others, encrypt the contents of victimsu2019 PCs and demands a payment, usually in Bitcoin, in order to get the decryption key. Millions of victims have been hit by these threats in the last couple of years, but putting a number on infections and a dollar value on how much money the crews are making is difficult. However,u00a0with ransom payments ranging from less than $100 to as much as $300 or more, the criminals behind these ransomware families are building multimillion dollar businesses on the fear and desperation of their victims.  Despite the sudden appearance of CryptoLocker and the other more recent kinds of ransomware, the concept itself is not new. As far back as the late 1980s, early versions of crypto ransomware were showing up and security researchers began looking at the problem by the mid-1990s.u00a0By the mid-2000s, more and more crypto ransomware variants were popping up, but it wasnu2019t until CryptoLocker reared its head in 2013 that the scope and potential damage of the threat came into sharp focus. Victims, researchers and law enforcement soon realized that the game had changed. u201cJust imagine the scale of how many people are being held for ransom with these threats. Itu2019s mind-boggling,u201d said Anup Ghosh, CEO of security vendor Invincea, which has done research on ransomware threats. u201cItu2019s someone elseu2019s problem until your own personal information gets encrypted and you canu2019t access your work data and photos. The personal pain is so much more dramatic than any other intrusion.u201d For all the attention that CryptoLocker and Cryptowall and the other variants have gotten from the media and security researchers, enterprises havenu2019t yet totally caught on to the severity of the threat. Much of the infection activity by crypto ransomware has targeted consumers thus far, as theyu2019re more likely to pay the ransom to get their data back. But Ghosh said thatu2019s likely to change soon. u201cItu2019s not even on their radar. Itu2019s similar to banking Trojans in terms of what IT guys think of it,u201d Ghosh said. u201cThey treat it as an individual problem and as a reason to slap people on the wrist. u2018Oh, you must have done something badu2019.u201d Ransomware gangs use a variety of methods to infect new victims, including riding shotgun on other malware infections and through drive-by downloads. But perhaps the most common infection method is through spam messages carrying infected attachments. These often look like FedEx shipping notifications or fake invoices. When a user opens the attachment, the malware infects the machine and encrypts the files. But the crypto ransomware gangs donu2019t operate on their own. They have support systems, developers and other systems in place to help them create their malware and cash out the profits. u201cCryptoLocker and GameOver Zeus were often installed alongside each other, and now you see these groups improving from there and specializing,u201d said John Miller, manager, ThreatScape cyber crime, at iSIGHT Partners. u201cThereu2019s so much momentum behind ransomware operations and the black markets that support it, we expect it to be a problem for the foreseeable future. There are people selling ransomware, customization services for countries and distribution services for getting it onto machines or phones.u201d How much money is involved? Millions and millions of dollars. In just the first six months of operation, the Cryptowall malware generated more than a million dollars in revenue for its creators, according to research from Dell SecureWorks. Thatu2019s one group using one variant of crypto ransomware. And there are dozens, if not hundreds, of other groups running similar operations. Where CryptoLocker innovated with the use of strong encryption and demand for Bitcoin as ransom, other groups have taken the concept and run with it. The Critroni, or CTB-Locker, ransomware not only accepts Bitcoin, but it also uses elliptic curve cryptography and employs the Tor network for command-and-control. The group behind Cryptowall also goes to some lengths to ensure that the ransomware is on the right kind of machine before it runs. u201cThey went through a lot of work to hide the executable in encryption, to check if itu2019s running in a virtual machine, and the ability to exploit multiple environments,u201d said Cisco Talos security research engineer Earl Carter. u201cSo much was put into Cryptowall 2.0. Someone went to a lot of work on the front end to avoid detection.u201d The piles of money and growing complaints from victims has begun to draw the attention of law enforcement, as evidenced by the GameOver Zeus-CryptoLocker takedown and actions against the Reveton ransomware operation. Researchers expect the level of law enforcement interest to grow, especially as ransomware infects more enterprises and the profits for attackers continue to grow. u201cNow that itu2019s become apparent how much damage ransomware is causing, law enforcement is paying attention,u201d Miller said. u201cItu2019s gotten their attention in a big way. Itu2019s in their scope. But it hasnu2019t been targeted very much by takedown activity. A lot of the criminals operating this feel that because what theyu2019re doing is stealing virtual currency from individuals itu2019s less likely to see law enforcement attention. u201cThe biggest reason this environment will change is sustained law enforcement action.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36591a6cefc42b00293bfe" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Ransomware Scam Accepts Bitcoin Payment", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-ransomware-scam-accepts-bitcoin-payment/102632/", "Date" : "October 21, 2013 , 11:31 am", "Article" : "A family of ransomware known as CryptoLocker has added the popular digital currency Bitcoin to the list of payment methods it accepts in exchange for the private key that will decrypt the files encrypted by the malware. According to a blogpost penned by AlienVault researcher Alberto Ortega, Bitcoin joins online payment services Ukash, MoneyPak, and cashU as possible means of paying the roughly $300 ransom requested by CryptoLocker. Ransomware is a type of malware that attempts extort money from itu2019s victims by encrypting their files or locking down their computer in some other way. The malware generally threatens that user files or the victim-machine itself will be inaccessible until the user pays the ransom. There is never any guarantee that paying these ransoms will recover anything. In many cases it is entirely possible that the files arenu2019t really encrypted or are completely unrecoverable. Paying such ransoms is not recommended. It is better to try to rid the malware using an antivirus product of some kind or by manually removing it from an infected machine. While the move to accept the pseudo-anonymous crypto-currency in malware-ransom payments is certainly new, it also appears u2013 in this specific case u2013 to have not worked thus far. Ortega examined the transaction record of the Bitcoin address listed in the scammeru2019s malware interface, finding that scheme has yet to net the criminal a single Bitcoin. As Ortega points out, at present, Bitcoin is used almost exclusively by the technically savvy, who are far less likely to become infected with malware in the first place. However, two similar scams utilizing the same malware family but offering different Bitcoin addresses for payment have made modest profits. These transaction can be monitored on the Bitcoin wallet site, Blockchain. Payments aside, the malware claims to encrypt photos, videos, documents, and more, even providing victims with a link to a full list of encrypted file-types. The malware creators claim to have deployed RSA-2048 encryption protected by a private key. The ransomware-interface also displays a countdown clock, warning users that if time elapses, the private decryption key will be deleted and there will be no way to recover the encrypted files.  Bitcoin enthusiasts defend the crypto-currency as an easy to use, globally accepted method of buying and selling goods and services online. Unfortunately, Bitcoin is widely used by cyber- and traditional criminals as well. The digital currency offers a number of perks for criminal use, chief among those is the fact that the currency is decentralized. There is no central authority governing Bitcoin, and therefore, there is no way of freezing a Bitcoin account thought to be involved in criminal behavior. Bitcoin is also anonymous and difficult to track. Earlier this month, the FBI seized and shutdown an underground cybercriminal marketplace known as the Silk Road. The shutdown demonstrated the extent to which users can purchase illegal drugs, weapons, and hacking tools using Bitcoin and money transfer services. Itu2019s difficult to operate a multi-billion dollar operation like the Silk Road using only Bitcoin though. As Kaspersky Lab principle security researcher Kurt Baumgarnter explained in recent Threatpost interview shortly after the Silk Road takedown, much of the value attributed to Bitcoins is reliant on an emerging industry of overseas currency exchangers that will essentially pay cash for Bitcoins at a discounted rate or u2013 depending on how you look at it u2013 exchange cash for Bitcoins for a fee. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659276cefc42b00293c14" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Device-Locking Ransomware Moves to Android", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cryptolocker-ransomware-moves-to-android/105937/", "Date" : "May 7, 2014 , 10:55 am", "Article" : "UPDATEu2013Ransomwareu00a0has been wreaking havoc on desktops for many yearsu00a0now, with attackers demanding that victims pay a fee to unlock the infected system. This kind of malwareu00a0hasnu2019t been a huge issue yet on mobile devices, but thatu2019s beginning to change, albeit slowly. Au00a0new piece of mobile malware targeting Androidu00a0is being sold by the same group responsible for the Reveton ransomware, which has been circulating for more than two years. The goal of all ransomware variants is to extort money from victims in one way or another. In some cases, including Reveton, the attackers use fake warnings from the FBI or other law enforcement agencies telling the victim that he has been found to have visited illegal sites containing child pornography and must pay a fine. CryptoLockeru00a0and similar pieces of ransomware takes this to a different level, encrypting victimsu2019 hard drives with strong encryption and demanding a payment, typically around $300, in order to get access to the private key that will decrypt the drive. The ransomware has spread far and wide in the last year, and scammers often send out links to affiliated domains in phishing emails. When users hit those domains, they could encounter an exploit kit that tries to launch exploits against the victimu2019s browser. Now, at least one gang is advertising a pieceu00a0of ransomware that has the ability to infect Android devices. Unlike CryptoLocker and its competitors, however, this malware does not encrypt the data on an infected device.u00a0Rather, it locks the device. A security researcher who uses the handle Kafeine found that when victims on Android devices hit a domain using this particular strain of the ransomware, the site redirects users to a porn site that uses social engineering to entice them to download the malicious APK containing the ransomware. The ransomware also can infect desktop machines if victims browse to the malicious domain. Kafeine is a French researcher who closely follows the malware and exploit kit worlds and often publishes analyses of new variants.n u201cIf you land on it with Android then youu2019ll be redirected to a website that will push the download of the APK to the mobile without interaction. Note : no installation. User has to do an action. So itu2019s Social Engineering.u201d Kafeineu00a0wrote in an analysis of the malware. u201cThe locker is kind of effective. You can go on your homescreen but nothing else seems to work.u00a0Launching Browser, callings Apps, or u2018list of active tasku2019 will bring the Locker back.u201d The APK file the user downloads masquerades as a porn app, but when itu2019s launched victims see a warning screen saying that they have been accused of viewing or disseminating pornography from their phone. The message says the user could face a jail term of five to 11 years and demands a payment of $300 via MoneyPak. The version of the kit thatu2019s being advertised by the Reveton gang has variants for victims in more than 30 countries, including the United States, UK, France, Germany, Australia and Spain. This article was updated on May 7 to clarify that the malware isnu2019t a version of CryptoLocker. It was further updated on June 5 to explain that the malware does not encrypt infected Android devices, but simply locks them. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b36595a6cefc42b00293c6d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New Wave of CTB-Locker/Critroni Ransomware Hitting Victims", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-wave-of-ctb-lockercritroni-ransomware-hitting-victims/110820/", "Date" : "February 3, 2015 , 12:20 pm", "Article" : "There is a new wave of attacks delivering the CTB-Locker or Critroni crypto ransomware, arriving through spam messages with a variety of lures in several different countries. CTB-Locker is one of the newer variants inu00a0the crypto ransomware family, a kind of malware that encrypts victimsu2019 hard drives and demands a relatively large payment in order to get the decryption key. The most famous strain of this kind of malware is CryptoLocker, which has infected tens of thousands of machines and generated millions of dollars of revenue for the gang behind it. Last year, the the FBI and other authoritiesu00a0took down the infrastructure behind the GameOver Zeus malware, which had been used to distribute CryptoLocker, an action that disrupted some of the malwareu2019s effectiveness. But shortly thereafter, CTB-Locker came onto the scene, and it hasu00a0a couple of interesting features. The CTB in the name stands for Curve-Tor-Bitcoin, and the malware uses elliptic curve cryptography to lock up usersu2019 files. It also has used the Tor anonymity network for command and control operations and it typically demands the ransom payments in the form of Bitcoin. u201cIt uses C2 hidden in the Tor network. Previously we havenu2019t seen cryptomalware having C2 in Tor. Only banking trojans,u201d Fedor Sinitsyn, senior malware analyst at Kaspersky Lab, who has been researching this threat, said at the time of the initil analysis. u201cExecutable code for establishing Tor connection is embedded in the malwareu2019s body. Previously the malware of this type, this was usually accomplished with a Tor.exe file. Embedding Tor functions in the malwareu2019s body is a more difficult task from the programming point of view, but it has some profits, because it helps to avoid detection, and it is more efficient in general.u201d The CTB-Locker malware has been distributed through the notorious Angler exploit kit in the past, though the new wave of infections seems to be resulting mainly from malicious spam messages. u201cThe common infection vector is via an email containing a fake invoice compressed in a u201c.zipu201d or u201c.cabu201d archive file. The archives contain a binary (Dalexis dropper, usually in an u201c.scru201d file) which, once opened, displays a decoy RTF document, waits for 5 minutes and then drops the actual CTB-Locker payload, which in turn performs the encryption routines,u201d an analysis from the CERT team atu00a0Sociu00e9tu00e9 Gu00e9nu00e9rale says. Users infected with the CTB-Locker malware have a finite amount of time in order to submit the payment, usually three or four days. The payment is usually two or three Bitcoin, and victims who donu2019t pay have little in the way of recourse for getting back their encrypted data. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659756cefc42b00293c83" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Key Flaw Enables Recovery of Files Encrypted by TorrentLocker", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/key-flaw-enables-recovery-of-files-encrypted-by-torrentlocker/108210/", "Date" : "September 11, 2014 , 11:03 am", "Article" : "Crypto ransomware, a relatively unknown phenomenon a couple of years ago, has exploded into one of the nastier malware problems for Internet users. Variants such as CryptoLocker and CryptoWall have been siphoning money from victims for some time, and now researchers have dissected a newer variant known as TorrentLocker and found that the creators made a key mistake that enables them to recover encrypted files in some circumstances. TorrentLocker is a separate strain of crypto ransomware from CryptoLocker or CryptoWall, but its creators appear to have taken quite a few notes from the older variants. The look and feel are somewhat similar to CryptoLocker, but it uses a different kind of encryption scheme and the underlying code is not similar to CryptoLockeru2019s. u201cTorrentLocker is a new strain of ransom malware that appears to use components of CryptoLocker and CryptoWall, but the code is completely different from the other two ransomware families. Despite its unique code, the malware suggests to victims that it is CryptoLocker by using a ransom message that is very similar to that used by CryptoLocker. The design of the ransom page is more closely aligned with CryptoWall. The malware installs itself on the infected machine and injects a binary into a legitimate process. This injected binary contains the functionality to encrypt files using the Rijndael algorithm. Once files are encrypted, the victim is prompted with a ransom message and a decryption deadline,u201d Richard Hummel of iSIGHT Partners wrote in an analysis of the ransomware. Like many other kinds of crypto ransomware, TorrentLocker is distributed through spam campaigns.u00a0Once on a new machine, it encrypts files and communicates with a remote command-and-control server. Victims are required to pay the ransom to decrypt their files in Bitcoin, which is typical of this kind of malware. But a close analysis of TorrentLocker shows that, unlike the classic CryptoLocker ransomware, the encryption is not implemented correctly. TorrentLocker appears to use a stream cipher built upon AES, the current NIST encryption standard, but the creators seem to have made the mistake of using the same keystream repeatedly. u201cIn our analysis, we had samples of both encrypted and plaintext versions of the same files. As the encryption was done by combining the keystream with the plaintext file using the XOR operation, we were able to recover the keystream used to encrypt those files by simply applying XOR between the encrypted file and the plaintext file. We tested this with several samples of the affected files we had and realized that the malware program uses the same keystream to encrypt all the files within the same infection. This was a cryptographic mistake on the malware authoru2019s part, as you should never use the keystream more than once,u201d a new analysis of the malware by researchers Taneli Kaivola, Patrik Nisu00e9n and Antti Nuopponen from Finnish security firm NIXU says. u201cFurther analysis of the encrypted files also revealed that the malware program added 264 bytes of extra data to the end of each encrypted file, and that it only encrypts the first 2MB of the file, leaving the rest intact. If the size of the original file is less then 2MB and if the size is not multiple of 16 bytes, the malware program leaves a few bytes from the end of the file unencrypted (file size modulo 16 to be exact).u201d What the researchers found is that, given both the encrypted and plaintext versions of a file thatu2019s more than 2 MB, they could find the entire keystream used to encrypt it. TorrentLocker is nowhere near as widespread a threat as CryptoLocker or CryptoWall, and researchers donu2019t expect that to change much. u201ciSIGHT Partners believes that use of this malware will not grow significantly due to a lack of distinguishing features. The malware lacks distinguishing features; more sophisticated malware types are already available on underground markets,u201d Hummel ofu00a0iSIGHT said. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659946cefc42b00293c9a" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "BitCrypt Ransomware Deploying Weak Crypto", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/bitcrypt-ransomware-deploying-weak-crypto/104448/", "Date" : "February 24, 2014 , 3:43 pm", "Article" : "A new piece of ransomware that emerged earlier this month is encrypting its victimu2019s files with an easily breakable cryptographic algorithm. BitCrypt, as it is known, purports to lock down files with 1024-bit RSA encryption but actually only deploys a much weaker 426-bit key. According to researchers Cedric Pernet and Fabien Perigaud, the makers of BitCrypt may have accidentally deployed this much weaker encryption algorithm that is incredibly easy to break. So easy in fact, the researchers say they can break BitCryptu2019s encryption using a standard computer in a matter of hours. Pernet and Perigauld are a pair of researchers working for Cassidian, the security division of the European Aerospace Defence and Space group. The researchers first came across BitCrypt after it showed up and encrypted everything on a computer belonging to one of their friends. Research revealed that the domain u2018bitcrypt[dot]infou2019 was registered on February 3. Presumably, the victims of BitCrypt are directed toward this website, where they are told they must set up a Bitcoin purse and pay 0.4 Bitcoins into the Bitcoin wallet of the person or people responsible for BitCrypt. Once they have done that, there is a set of fields on the website where victims can enter their Bitcoin wallet ID number and their email address. Once the criminals see that they have received a payment from the infected usersu2019 wallet, they can then send off the appropriate encryption key, so that user can then decrypt their files. Pernet and Perigauld managed to find and analyze a VirusTotal sample of BitCrypt that had been submitted on February 9. BitCrypt claimed to use RSA 1024-bit cryptography. The researchers then did a bit of reverse engineering and at first glance everything seemed legitimate. While it sought out files to encrypt, the malware ran a watching thread that monitored user activity and blocked any attempt to run taskmgr.exe or regedit.exe. The malware was encrypting any files with the following extensions: .dbf, .mdb, .mde, .xls, .xlw, .docx, .doc, .cer, .key, .rtf, .xlsm, .xlsx, .txt, .xlc, .docm, .xlk, .text, .ppt, .djvu, .pdf, .lzo, .djv, .cdx, .cdt, .cdr, .bpg, .xfm, .dfm, .pas, .dpk, .dpr, .frm, .vbp, .php, .js, .wri, .css, .asm, .jpg, .jpeg, .dbx, .dbt, .odc, .sql, .abw, .pab, .vsd, .xsf, .xsn, .pps, .lzh, .pgp, .arj, .gz, .pst, and .xl However, upon decoding one of BitCryptu2019s configuration files, it became very apparent that BitCryptu2019s writers had failed to deploy the encryption correctly. u201cThe [decoded] number has 128 digits,u201d the pair wrote in a blog post, u201cwhich could indicate a (big) mistake from the malware author, who wanted to generate a 128 bytes key.u201d As it turned out, BitCrypt was deploying RSA-426 encryption rather than 1024. The researchers managed to break that cryptography in 43 hours on a quad-core PC and just 14 hours on 24-core server. In general, ransomware is a type of malware that encrypts various seemingly important files on the machines of its victims. These scams then asks their victims to make some payment in exchange for the encryption key that would decrypt those files. There is never any guarantee that paying the ransom will decrypt anything. In September 2013, a particularly potent piece of ransomware called CryptoLocker emerged. While Ransomware is nothing new, CryptoLocker garnered enough attention to become one of those special pieces of malware that gets press attention outside the security industry. CryptoLockeru2019s efficacy spurred a bit of a surge in new ransomware samples. For months, weak cryptography has been a hot topic in the security world because of revelations suggesting the the U.S. National Security Agency had allegedly found ways of subverting popular cryptographic algorithms deployed by the big Internet firms to spy on those companiesu2019 users en masse without warrant. This report from Pernet and Perigaud flips that narrative a bit, demonstrating not even cybercriminals are immune from making mistakes with cryptography. If youu2019d like to read up on exactly where BitCryptu2019s authoru2019s slipped up, you can find Pernet and Perigaudu2019s technical analysis here. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659976cefc42b00293c9f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "FBI Says Cryptowall Cost Victims $18 Million Since 2014", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/fbi-says-cryptowall-cost-victims-18-million-since-2014/113432/", "Date" : "June 23, 2015 , 12:12 pm", "Article" : "In a little more than a year, consumers affected by the Cryptowall ransomware have reported to the FBI more than $18 million in losses related to infections from the malware. Cryptowall is among the group of ransomware families that encrypt the files on victimsu2019 computers and then demands a ransom in order to obtain the decryption key. The infections typically begin with either a phishing email or when the victim goes to a site hosting an exploit kit. Some of the infections rely on exploiting vulnerabilities in software on usersu2019 machines, but just as often the malware is delivered when a user clicks on a malicious link and downloads the malware. The Cryptowall family has gone through a number of iterations during its roughly 16-month lifespan.u00a0One of the key changeu00a0the attackers behind this malware have made is the use of Tor in order to hide its command-and-control infrastructure. Other ransomware, such as Critroni, have employed the same tactic. Ransomware typically demands that users payu00a0ransom in Bitcoin or other electronic payment method, and the FBI said in an alert issued Tuesday that the financial effect on victims has been extensive. u201cCryptoWall and its variants have been used actively to target U.S. victims since April 2014. The financial impact to victims goes beyond the ransom fee itself, which is typically between $200 and $10,000,u201d the alert from the FBIu2019s Internet Crime Complaint Center says.  u201cMany victims incur additional costs associated with network mitigation, network countermeasures, loss of productivity, legal fees, IT services, and/or the purchase of credit monitoring services for employees or customers. Between April 2014 and June 2015, the IC3 received 992 CryptoWall-related complaints, with victims reporting losses totaling over $18 million.u201d The FBI and other law-enforcement agencies have had some notableu00a0success in disrupting ransomware operations. Last year, authorities from several countries executed a takedown of the GameOver Zeus operation, an event that also disrupted the CryptoLocker infrastructure. The GOZ Trojan often was used to distribute CryptoLocker, and the FBI and Europol were able to take down the GOZ botnet in June 2014. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659bf6cefc42b00293ce4" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Gameover Zeus Botnet Rebuilds", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/gameover-zeus-botnet-rebuilds/107776/", "Date" : "August 14, 2014 , 4:58 pm", "Article" : "It didnu2019t take long for an updated version of GameOver Zeus to make some headway in rebuilding itself. Research published today from Arbor Networks demonstrates that cybercriminals behind GameOver Zeus, which was taken down by law enforcement in early June, have renewed the botnet with at least 12,353 unique IP addresses worldwide. Arboru2019s numbers come from five sinkholes it manages, and data collected periodically between July 18 and July 29. u201cThe steady growth of newGOZ demonstrates the resilience of the attackers to keep their botnet active,u201d said Dave Loftus, security analyst at Arbor Networks. u201cWhile previous efforts to disrupt the botnet have been successful, these disruptions are usually only temporary. Until law enforcement can successfully prosecute the individuals behind the botnet, we expect the growth of newGOZ to continue well into the future.u201d The takedown, coordinated between the FBI and Europol, involved the seizure of servers and domains that disrupted not only GameOver Zeus but authorities said the same botnet was used to distribute CryptoLocker ransomware. GameOver Zeus is an offshoot of the virulent Zeus banking Trojan. Unlike itu2019s big brother. GameOver until recently used a decentralized peer to peer architecture making it a challenge to disrupt. In a P2P architecture, commands are send to and from individual bots rather than from a command and control server. GameOver Zeus, like other banking malware, is used in fraud schemes and to steal banking credentials from its victimsu2019 computers. Shortly after the takedown, researchers at Seculert spotted the newGOZ variant which abandoned peer-to-peer communication for an updated domain generation algorithm. The DGA quickly ramped up new bots from 1,000 a week, to 1,000 a day on average, according to CTO Aviv Raff. u201cIt uses a domain generation algorithm and a technique known as fast-fluxing to check into the criminal infrastructure. Since this DGA takes the current date and a randomly selected starting seed to create a domain name, we can predict which domains will be used in the future. With this in mind, we were able to register the domains before the attackers did, which allowed us to redirect the malware traffic to our servers to track the growth of the botnet,u201d Loftus said. u201cOnce the domains were registered, the newGOZ infections checked into our servers as we expected. We were able to log the unique number of IP addresses associated with the infections and determine the locations that have been hit the hardest.u201d Loftus says this gang is definitely in a rebuild mode. u201cOur sinkhole data reinforces steady growth of new Gameover Zeus since we started tracking the botnet,u201d Loftus said. Researchers at Malcovery said in mid-July that the Cutwail botnet began distributing newGOZ via spam campaigns. u201cOur sinkhole data provides a first look at how successful these spam campaigns have been. Between July 21-25, we observed a 1,879 percent increase, confirming that the cybercriminals are actively rebuilding their botnet from scratch.u201d Most of the victims are in the United States and India, with Internet service providers, telecommunications and education markets providing the most victims. u201cEach botnet topology has advantages and disadvantages when we consider the ease of criminals building them and their resiliency against take downs. Centralized botnets are the most simple to build, but theyu2019re also the most vulnerable. If the command & control infrastructure is disrupted, the cybercriminals generally lose control of the botnet,u201d Loftus said. u201cP2P botnets add more complexity and usually take longer to engineer, but help withstand disruptions. With P2P botnets, every infection is a potential Command & Control. In the case of newGOZ, the malware no longer utilizes the P2P functionality, but generates a series of domain names using the current date and a random seed and utilizes fast-fluxing to check into the criminal infrastructure. By using this method, the botnet operators are quickly rebuilding their botnet from scratch.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659c26cefc42b00293ce7" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Attacker Decrypts Computers Infected with Locker Ransomware", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/locker-ransomware-decryption-keys-posted-online/113106/", "Date" : "June 2, 2015 , 1:38 pm", "Article" : "Update: Computers infected by the Locker crypto-ransomware were today decrypted as promised by the malwareu2019s author, who last week posted the decryption keys to an upload site and apologized for releasing the malware. Lawrence Abrams of Bleeping Computer said the infected computers were decrypted for free. A post to Bleeping Computer said that the authoru2019s decryption command only works on computers that are still infected. Any machines that have removed the malware can use a tool posted to the site over the weekend to decrypt their files. A database containing the Bitcoin address where payments were to be made along with public and private keys, was uploaded over the weekend to mega.co.nz in a CSV file, a post to Pastebin from the alleged author says. Details on the structure of the encrypted files were also provided. u201cThis is a dump of the complete database and most of the keys werenu2019t even used,u201d the post says. u201cAll distribution of new keys has been stopped.u201d The post also promised that automatic decryption of any infected computers was to begin at midnight today. KnowBe4 CEO Stu Sjouwerman speculated in a blogpost that either the author has made enough money with this campaign, is close to being caught be law enforcement, or is under pressure from rival criminals. KnowBe4 said Locker lie dormant on compromised machines until midnight May 25 when it started to infect machines and encrypt files, behaving similarly to CryptoLocker. The Locker malware was spread via malvertising campaigns redirecting users to exploit kits, and possibly a compromised Minecraft installer, the company said. Locker targets Windows machines and targets a slew of file types, including .doc, .docx, .xlsx, .ppt, .wmdb, .ai, .jpg, .psd, .nef, .odf, .raw, .pem, .rtf, .raf, .dbf, .header, .wmdb, .odb, .dbf. KnowBe4 said Locker does not change the file extension on encrypted files, and users will see error messages as they try to open the files. Unlike other ransomware strains charging upwards of $500 or more to decrypt files, Locker was seeking 0.1 Bitcoin, around $30USD. None of the victims, however, have been refunded, KnowBe4 said. u201cIf you build code like this, you know very well what you are doing. The fact it was built as a u2018sleeperu2019 shows months-long carefulu00a0planning,u201d Sjouwerman said. u201cThe other point is that if he would really have genuine remorse, everyone would get refunded which does not seem to have happened. It is also not clear if current infection vectors have been turned off or not.u201d Sjouwerman said this could be the authoru2019s first foray into malware development. u201cWhat we can assume is that he is a talented coder but not an experienced cyber criminal because a foul-up like this would never have happened with professionalu00a0Eastern European organized cybercrime,u201d Sjouwerman said. u201cHe may have worked as a developer for one of these gangs and decided to start his own outfit which backfired.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659d26cefc42b00293cfb" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Behind the CryptoLocker Disruption", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/behind-the-cryptolocker-disruption/107650/", "Date" : "August 7, 2014 , 1:55 pm", "Article" : "LAS VEGASu2013The takedown of the GameOver Zeus malware operation in June got more than its share of attention, but it was the concurrent demolition of the CryptoLocker ransomware infrastructure that may prove to have been the most important part of the operation. That outcome was the culmination of months of behind the scenes work by dozens of security researchers who cooperated with law enforcement to trace, monitor and ultimately wreck the careful work and planning of the CryptoLocker crew. CryptoLocker emerged in 2013 and quickly gained a lot of notice, both among security researchers and the law enforcement community. Delivered by the GameOver Zeus Trojan, the ransomware, which encrypts the contents of infected machines and then demands a payment of $300 for the decryption key, was racking up a lot of victims, some of which were law enforcement agencies themselves. Ransomware wasnu2019t anything new; it has been around for many years in various forms. But the concept of a piece of malware that had the ability to encrypt all of a victimu2019s files and potentially wreck the machine was novel. u201cThis was something new. This was ransomware done right,u201d said John Bambenek, president of Bambenek Consulting, who was involved in the working group that tracked CryptoLocker and talked about the operation at the Black Hat USA conference here Thursday. u201cIt made for a good case study on how to do threat intelligence.u201d The working group that came together to defeat CryptoLocker was global and had people with all kinds of different skill sets: malware reverse engineering, math, botnet tracking and intelligence. Some members worked on taking part the domain-generation algorithm while others looked at the command-and-control infrastructure and still others broke down the malware itself. What the researchers began to notice as they dug deeper into the CryptoLocker operation was that the crew behind the ransomware had done a lot of things right, but had also exhibited some oddly inconsistent behaviors. u201cThe interesting thing is all the opsec involved in this. The architecture thought out with this was really clear. The people working on this really sat down and architected and then engineered something,u201d said Lance James of Deloitte & Touche, who spoke alongside Bambenek at Black Hat. u201cIt took a lot more people on our side to hit it harder.u201d The researchers began to wonder why the CryptoLocker gang had decided to ride along with GameOver Zeus, a very stealthy piece of malware that is designed to sit quietly on a victimu2019s machine and steal data. u201cWhy would the people who run GameOver Zeus expose their infections so loudly?u201d Bambenek said. What they realized, though, was that the GOZ infections gave the CryptoLocker crew a pipeline into machines that couldnu2019t effectively be shut down quickly. u201cItu2019s almost like having a tunnel with a low footprint. Itu2019s something we couldnu2019t shut down. They were winning the race before we could get there,u201d James said. One of the key pieces of the CryptoLocker intelligence operation was the reverse engineering of the DGA the malware used. The algorithm regularly generates new domains for the C2 communications between infected machines and the attackers, allowing the attackers to be agile and stay ahead of sinkhole operations and takedowns. Looking at the DGA allowed the working group to track C2 infrastructure in near real time, Bambenek said. The DGA turned out to be the same one used by the Flashback OSX Trojan, Bambenek said, and the CryptoLocker crew likely bought it from a third party. The estimates of how much money CryptoLocker made for its operators vary wildly, but Bambenek said the ransomware wasnu2019t even the main business for this group. u201cThis was a very lucrative cash crop for them. They used this as funding for something else that we canu2019t talk about right now,u201d he said. The good news is that the researchers involved in this operation learned a lot of lessons from it and will be able to apply them to the inevitable wave of copycat crypto ransomware strains to come. u201cCryptoLocker is dead, but itu2019s captured the imagination,u201d Bambenek said. u00a0 " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659e86cefc42b00293d1e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "New GameOver Zeus Variant Generates 1,000 Domains Daily", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/new-gameover-zeus-variant-generates-1000-domains-daily/107544/", "Date" : "July 31, 2014 , 12:22 pm", "Article" : "The GameOver Zeus takedown was trumpeted as a victory against cybercrime, and for all its success, even those involved understood it was likely a temporary win. Researchers at Seculert have spotted a new variant of GameOver Zeus that has spurned previous versionsu2019 peer-to-peer communication infrastructure and has an updated domain generation algorithm (DGA). The changes and updates have exponentially hiked up the botnetu2019s numbers. Where previously, GameOver Zeus was generating 1,000 new domains weekly, this version is doing that number on a daily basis, Seculertu2019s Aviv Raff wrote in a blogpost today. In early June, a cooperative effort between U.S. and European law enforcement and private companies such as Microsoft, Abuse.ch, CrowdStrike and others resulted in the seizure of servers used by the criminals behind the GameOver Zeus botnet, the same botnet used to distribute CryptoLocker ransomware. GameOver Zeus was a challenge because of its decentralized architecture and command and control instructionsu00a0and updates sent between bots, rather than from a single command server. At its height, the botnet was responsible for millions in financial fraud losses; a stepchild of the Zeus banking malware, it too coveted banking credentials in order to steal funds from online bank accounts. u201cHaving previously sinkholed GameOver ZeuS, we are able to compare the number of bots communicating with our sinkhole prior to the takedown, and those of the new variant,u201d Raff wrote. u201cIn the last few days we have seen a surge in the number of bots communicating with our sinkhole; reaching as high as almost 10,000 infected devices. We anticipate the communications traffic to level out over time to reflect pre-takedown amounts.u201d Botnet takedowns have been championed often in the past two years as success stories by the FBI, Europol and software companies most affected by botnets, such as Microsoft. Almost always, however, the criminals re-surface with a new command infrastructure and a rejuvenated zombie army of bots. For example, a little more than a month after the GameOver Zeus takedown, new spam campaigns were spotted distributing binaries built from GameOver Zeus under the guise of phony notifications from banks and other financial organizations. Evenu00a0Shylock, another strain of banking malware that was taken down on July 10 by Europol, the FBI, GCHQ and private firms including Kaspersky Lab, has resurfaced. Shylock used man-in-the-browser attacks against a list of 60 pre-determined banks to steal credentials from its victims. Seculert said today it was able to sinkhole Shylock three days after it was taken down and reports that nearly 10,000 bots reach out to the sinkhole on a daily basis. Raff said the quick regeneration of botnets is nothing new. After Kelihos.B was taken down in 2011, Seculert said that 70,000 devices were still active in the botnet days after the seizures and communication between infected bots and command and control continued unabated. He wonders too whether takedowns are resulting in little more than a call to arms for attackers. u201cWe are not questioning the takedowns or discouraging future ones. Rather we are curious as to the success criteria of these multinational operations. Is the goal of a takedown to cripple the malware or to kill it?u201d he wrote. u201cThere is also the possibility that we could just be testing the limits of cybercriminals u2014 challenging them to immediately innovate which could lead to continued escalations. It is worth considering whether takedowns are a win for the team of cyber good guys or just a timeout allowing the criminals to regroup and come back stronger.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659fc6cefc42b00293d3d" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Cutwail-Like Spambot Hides Malicious Activity in its Traffic", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cutwail-like-spambot-hides-malicious-activity-in-its-traffic/103744/", "Date" : "January 21, 2014 , 9:55 am", "Article" : "A new spambot has been discovered that generates copious amounts of HTTP POST and GET requests in an attempt to disguise what itu2019s really up to and throw off the scent of detection capabilities. u201cIn this case, it seems like itu2019s trying to hide impactful communication where there are actual payloads among innocuous requests donu2019t contain anything noteworthy,u201d said Ed Miles, a senior software engineer, malware research at Dell SonicWALL. u201cItu2019s hiding itself in its own traffic.u201d The spambot, identified as Wigon.PH_44 by SonicWALL, is being served on compromised websites hosted on the WordPress platform. To date, there are up to 200 sites serving the malicious executable and Miles said that SonicWALL has recorded 15,000 hits in the wild on the malware signature, most of those in the United States. The Trojan infects Windows machines, including Windows 8 64-bit systems, and not only sends spam, but researchers have also found a data-stealing component that searches victim computers for email and FTP applications such as CuteFTP, FTP Commander, FTP Navigator, FileZilla and more. Miles and colleague Deepen Desai, a senior security researcher, also note that the malware has similarities to the Cutwail botnet, but arenu2019t ready to call it a variant yet. u201cWe were seeing the malware getting the [spam] email templates as part of the HTTP request, but theyu2019re in an encrypted format; that is one of the things we have seen in the past with Cutwail,u201d Desai said. u201cI would say itu2019s too early to call it Cutwail, but based on the behavior weu2019ve documented, it seems similar.u201d Cutwail is one of the most established spam botnets, and most prolific, sending at one point, millions of spam messages daily. It was two million compromised machines strong and used to distribute spam and financial malware targeting not only credit card data but credentials. u00a0The Cutwail emails often included links that would lead victims to sites hosting the Blackhole Exploit Kit, which would then inject downloaders for other malware such as ZeroAccess or Zeus. Victims in the campaign uncovered by Dell SonicWALL are infected via drive-by download attacks from the compromised WordPress sites. Miles and Desai said they had no information on how the WordPress sites were compromised or what the vulnerabilities may be. Once itu2019s established a foothold, it connects to a command server and receives other instructions that include orders to spam out other malware families, the researchers wrote on the company blog. Spambots and financial botnets have regressed a bit since the downfall of the Blackhole exploit kit, Cutwail included. When its alleged creator, a Russian named Paunch, was arrested in October, Blackhole and Cool, another alleged Paunch project, disappeared along with him. Cybercriminal gangs relied for years on Blackhole and its various webinject components to compromise websites and redirect victims to dangerous malware such as Zeus and ZeroAccess, both of which are prolific and handy at emptying bank accounts. Now that Blackhole is gone, security researchers noticed that some gangs had upped their use of direct attachments in spam and phishing emails to spread malware such as Zeusu2014a much less efficient means of making a profit, experts said. Some gangs too, were not only pushing financial Trojans, but also ransomware such as CryptoLocker and PowerLocker in an effort to quickly regain revenue until a viable alternative to Blackhole emerged. Cutwail was one such instance, researchers at Websense said, adding that some criminal outfits have tested the waters with a number of exploit kits including Neutrino, Nuclear Pack and Magnitude. Magnitude was poked and prodded by the Cutwail gang, Websense said, before it decided instead to rely upon emails containing malicious .zip files, numbers of which shot up in the wild. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b3659fd6cefc42b00293d3e" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "More Details of Onion/Critroni Crypto Ransomware Emerge", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/onion-ransomware-demands-bitcoins-uses-tor-advanced-encryption/107408/", "Date" : "July 24, 2014 , 2:37 pm", "Article" : "More details about a new family of encryption ransomware that uses the anonymous network Tor and requires users pay by Bitcoin have emerged. The ransomware, known in some circles as Critoni or CTB-Locker, has been dubbed Onion by researchers at Kaspersky Lab as its creators use command and control servers hidden in the Tor Network (a/k/a The Onion Router) to obscure their malicious activity. Similar to CryptoLocker, the ransomware that was first found locking up useru2019s systems last fall, Onion searches infected machines for a list of file types (.doc, .jpeg, .zip, etc.) compresses them and encrypts them. It then displays a window that tells users exactly what has been encrypted, and gives them au00a072-hour deadline and instructions on how the user canu00a0fork over the ransom in Bitcoin. According to Kaspersky Labu2019s Fedor Sinitsyn, a senior malware analyst with the companyu2019s Global Research and Analysis Team, Onion was first detected at the end of June. While the ransomwareu2019s first target was English-speaking users, due to a newer Russian GUI and specific strings in the Trojan, Sinitsyn believes itu2019s safe to say its creators speak Russian. As of this week the ransomware has primarily been attacking users in Russia and Ukraine, yet members of the Commonwealth of Independent States like Kazakhstan and Belarus have also been hit. Sinitsyn wrote on Securelist Thursday of the ransomwareu2019s unconventional Tor connection claiming that Onion communicates with Tor through the malwareu2019s malicious code, via a different thread, something that makes the malware far more sophisticated than other types that would just inject code into other processes. Unlike the majority of crypto-malware, which use a combination of AES and RSA to encrypt files, Onion bucks the trend and uses a version of the asymmetric ECDH (Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman) algorithm. The malware compresses files via the Zlib library, then encrypts them with AES, with the hash SHA256. The only way to decrypt files encrypted by Onion are by calculating ECDH with a master-private key derived from the cybercriminalsu2019 server. The same protocol, ECDH, also protects all traffic coming to and from the attackersu2019 server with a separate, different set of keys. Researchers claim that Onion is spread through the bot Andromeda, which first downloads and then runs the malicious program Joleee, which in turn downloads Onion on victimu2019s machines. The research comes on the heels of work doneu00a0last week by the French security researcher Kafeine, who explained howu00a0in some cases the ransomware was being dropped by spambots via the Angler exploit kit. Onion, like its predecessors CryptoLocker and Cryptowall, is the latest in a line of so-called encryptors; nasty Trojans that encrypt everything from usersu2019 family photos and documents to legitimate computer files like certificates, databases and files that store digital signatures. It was widely assumed that CryptoLocker had been mostly neutralized following the Gameover Zeus takedown earlier this summer. Authorities said at the time the same botnet had beenu00a0used to distribute the ransomware but some researchers have contested this theoryu00a0and have recently begun to argue the ransomware is alive and evolving. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a036cefc42b00293d49" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CryptoLocker Ransomware Alive and Evolving, Says Researcher", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cryptolocker-ransomware-alive-and-evolving-says-researcher/107323/", "Date" : "July 18, 2014 , 3:38 pm", "Article" : "U.S. and European law enforcement officials last month, performed a coordinated takedown of the GameOver Zeus botnet. At the time, they claimed that the operation also neutralized the infamous CryptoLocker ransomware, which criminals had distributed using GameOveru2019s infrastructure. However, Tyler Moffitt, a threat research analyst at the security firm Webroot, argued in a blogpost yesterday that the FBIu2019s claims are dubious and that CryptoLocker remains in use. In particular, the FBIu2019s belief u201cthat Cryptolocker has been neutralized by the disruption and cannot communicate with the infrastructure used to control the malicious software,u201d overlooks an important reality. u201cThe reason why this claim should be scrutinized is because it is only the samples dropped on victims computers that communicated to those specific servers seized that are no longer a threat,u201d Moffit wrote. u201cAll samples currently being deployed by different botnets that communicate to different command and control servers are unaffected by this siegeu2026u201d More to the point, the FBI alleges that the mastermind behind the operation they shut down is a Russian national named Evgeniy Bogachev. Moffitt agrees with the FBIu2019s allegation that Bogachev and his co-conspirators did indeed control a significant portion of Zeus botnets in the business of distributing CryptoLocker. He also notes that there are many criminals in the business of operating Zeus botnets that disseminate CryptoLocker. u201cMost malware authors spread their samples through botnets that they either accumulated themselves (Evgeniy), or just rent time on a botnet from someone like Evgeniy (most common),u201d Moffitt reasons. u201cSo now that Evgeniyu2019s servers are seized, malware authors are just going to rent from some of the many other botnets out there that are still for lease.u201d Furthermore, Moffitt says that malware authors are improving upon CryptoLocker with new ransomware such as CryptoWall, New CryptoLocker, DirCrypt, and CryptoDefense. Instead of a traditional graphical user interface, he says these merely change the victimu2019s background and display instructions on how to unlock the infected machine. Another change is that the criminals behind these schemes are no longer reliant on third-party money transfer companies or money mules. Users are told to install Tor and pay the criminals directly. Thus, he claims the malware authors are increasing their take of the overall profit from the scam. In fact, last month, in a voluntary data breach notification addressed to the New Hampshire Attorney General, the investment firm Benjamin F. Edwards & Co. explained that one of its employees laptops became infected with CryptoWall. As a result, they said, data was transmitted to a suspicious IP address (in addition to being encrypted on the local drive). Just today, reports emerged detailing of a new piece of ransomware for sale on the criminal underground called Critroni. Researchers are calling it the first ransomeware to use the Tor network for command and control. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a066cefc42b00293d4f" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Critroni Crypto Ransomware Seen Using Tor for Command and Control", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/critroni-crypto-ransomware-seen-using-tor-for-command-and-control/107306/", "Date" : "July 18, 2014 , 10:37 am", "Article" : "Thereu2019s a new kid on the crypto ransomware block, known as Critroni, thatu2019s beenu00a0sold in underground forums for the last month or so and is now being dropped by the Angler exploit kit. The ransomware includes a number of unusual features and researchers say itu2019s the first crypto ransomware seen using the Tor network for command and control. The ransomware landscape has been dominated for the last year or sou00a0by CryptoLocker, one of the nastier pieces of malware to emerge recently. CryptoLocker has the ability to encrypt all of the files on an infected computer and then demands that the victim pay a ransom in order to get the private key to decrypt the data. The ransom demand often requires victims to pay in Bitcoins, and researchers say that the malware has infected hundreds of thousands of machines. Earlier this summer law enforcement agencies in the United States and Europe took down the GameOver Zeus malware operation, one of the key mechanisms that attackers were using to push the CryptoLocker ransomware. Around the same time in mid-June, security researchers began seeing advertisements for the Critroni ransomware on underground forums. Also known as CTB-Locker, the ransomware at first was being used almost exclusively against victims in Russia, but now has been seen in other countries, as well. The Critroni ransomware is selling for around $3,000 and researchers say it is now being used by a range of attackers, some of whom are using the Angler exploit kit to drop a spambot on victimsu2019 machines. The spambotu00a0then downloads a couple of other payloads, including Critroni. Once on a victimu2019s PC, Critroni encrypts a variety of files, including photos and documents, and then displays a dialogue box that informs the user of the infection and demands a payment in Bitcoins in order to decrypt the files. Victims have 72 hours to pay, and for those who donu2019t own any Bitcoins, the ransomware helpfully provides some detailed instructions on how to acquire them in various countries, according to an analysis of the threat by a French security researcher who uses the handle Kafeine. u201cThe Exploit Kit is just a vector. The delivery u2026 kind of UPS/Fedex/DHL. In some case you can see some trends, if a group has a dedicated threat and is using a dedicated vector, then you say stuff like : glupteba u2013> Flash EK, Reveton u2013> Angler EK (and even that one is a little fetched as one or two member are sometimes using their own EK). When itu2019s in affiliate modeu2026things are becoming blurryu2026.many more actors and infection paths,u201d Kafeine said via email. One of the unique features of Critroni/CTB-Locker is that it uses Tor for its command-and-control infrastructure. This is something that researchers have seen in other kinds of malware in recent months, but not with crypto ransomware. u201cIt uses C2 hidden in the Tor network. Previously we havenu2019t seen cryptomalware having C2 in Tor. Only banking trojans,u201d said Fedor Sinitsyn, senior malware analyst at Kaspersky Lab, who has been researching this threat. u201cExecutable code for establishing Tor connection is embedded in the malwareu2019s body. Previously the malware of this type, this was usually accomplished with a Tor.exe file. Embedding Tor functions in the malwareu2019s body is a more difficult task from the programming point of view, but it has some profits, because it helps to avoid detection, and it is more efficient in general.u201d This strain of ransomware also compresses the files it encrypts, using Zlib, Sinitsyn said, and employs ECDH (Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman) encryption, another unusual feature. Kaspersky Lab is working on a detailed research report on this malware, which it calls Onion Ransomware, which it plans to release next week. Critroni is in English and Russian right now, so countries that speak those languages will be at the top of the target list for attackers using the malware. Kafeine said via email that Critroni is now being pushedu00a0by a variety of attackers using different vectors. Critroni isnu2019t the first crypto ransomware to show up as part of an exploit kit operation. Cryptowall has been seen in the Angler exploit kit, and gameOver Zeus, which sometimes drops CryptoLocker, also showed up in Angler earlier this year. Critroni is nicknamed CTB-Locker, for Curve/Tor/Bitcoin. If a victimu2019s infected machine canu2019t connect to the attackeru2019s server in order to send the Bitcoin payment, the ransomware provides instructions for him to go to another PC and download the Tor browser bundle and then connect to the attackeru2019s Tor server to complete the transaction. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a0f6cefc42b00293d61" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Viable Blackhole Successor Could Take Years to Emerge", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/viable-blackhole-successor-could-take-years-to-emerge/103492/", "Date" : "January 8, 2014 , 8:00 am", "Article" : "It should shock no one that a viable successor to the Blackhole exploit kit has yet to emerge in the criminal underground. Itu2019s been less than three months since the arrest of its alleged creator Paunch sent cybercriminals reliant on the toolkit scrambling for a replacement. And like any profitable business venture, new products must prove their mettle before widespread adoption happens. u201cThere are many kit vendors and distributors competing for customers and have replaced Blackhole,u201d explained Kaspersky Lab senior security researcher Kurt Baumgartner. u201cOver time, a single one most likely will stand out, but that can take a couple of years, like any active criminal marketplace.u201d In the meantime, experts are keeping an eye on any number of kits in circulation, each with its own twist on the same business model: Selling website injections for Java, Adobe and other massively deployed products that are vulnerable to exploits that will redirect victims to websites hosting financial malware. Blackhole was the king of the exploit kits since its debut on the black markets in 2010. It was a refined toolkit of exploits that enabled criminals who rented or leased it to infect computers with crimeware such as the banking Trojans to great profits. u201cBlackhole development steadily was completed over time, resulting in a robust feature set. Its popularity overtook the popular Eleonore and Phoenix Kits at the time, in part because it was so frequently and reliably updated with effective exploits and features,u201d Baumgartner said. u201cIt was highly customizable, provided effective traffic direction features, had multiple operating sales models, the distributors were well connected with additional offensive add-on sellers, and its cost was comparably competitive, among other things.u201d Blackhole, along with another alleged Paunch creation, Cool, fell off the market in October shortly after the arrest of its Russian creator. Within days, researchers and customers noticed that the exploit kit was no longer being updated daily with the latest available exploits and a number Blackhole sites were returning gateway errors. The kitu2019s frequent updates, sometimes twice daily, along with its relatively affordable price ($50 a day, $1,500 for an annual license) went a long way toward making it the exploit kit of choice. u201cI think the whole infrastructure around Blackhole was unparalleled at the time,u201d said Websense director of security research Alex Watson. u201cI think itu2019s going to take time for cybercriminals or other competitive exploit kits to get to the same level of proficiency that Blackhole had.u201d Watson has observed criminal groups aggressively trying to recover lost revenue post-Blackhole, and shooting for multiple infections on the same machine not only using banking malware but even ransomware such as CryptoLocker. u201cIn that time, you see experimentation, and definitely, these groups have lost money,u201d Watson said. u201cIt will be Interesting to see, and a difficult conclusion to come to, as to the overall financial impact these groups have had after Blackhole when they started both more aggressive installations of malware, and then in some cases, more sophisticated or damaging malware to get people to pay.u201d As for a successor, Magnitude seems to be the leader in the clubhouse, in particular after a malvertising campaign was uncovered this week on Yahoo sites in Europe redirecting victims to the kit. Magnitude was also used in a hack of php.net in October. French researcher Kafeine ranked it behind Neutrino and has spotted a number of ransomware campaigns using the kit. There is a vast menu of exploits kits on the market, however, including RedKit, Nuclear, Bleeding Life, Sweet Orange, Angler, Sakura, Styx, and others. u201cAny of the packs that include aggressive server side polymorphic features, 0day exploits, is reliably updated, and is an effective part of any sustained mass exploitation and stealing effort, is interesting,u201d Kasperskyu2019s Baumgartner said. One as reliable as Blackhole, thatu2019s updated as frequently, is still to be found. u201cAnother possibility is that these criminal gangs are waiting for these kits to get enough momentum so that they can count on it,u201d Websenseu2019s Watson said. u201cAnd in the meantime, theyu2019ve been investing in other elements of attacks whether it be different types of malware like ransomware variants such as Cryptolocker where you wouldnu2019t have to have as many versions installed to get quite a bit of revenue coming in for these gangs.u201d Some campaigns such as the standby Cutwail spam bot relied heavily on Blackhole for its initial infection vector, and then tried their hand with Magnitude before relying of late on direct attachments or links in spam email to Cutwail downloads. u201cWhat weu2019ve seen post Blackhole is this immediate cutoff where the URL-based attacks inside these emails declined because of the Blackhole infrastructure going down. And then we see a resurgence of this where Magnitude was used pretty heavily by at least one of these groups but then they dropped off using that as well,u201d Watson said. u201cThat leaves us speculating, giving us an interesting look at the criminal community that leaves you open to speculate why they experimented with Magnitude and then moved away.u201d Watsonu2019s initial thought is that the business case isnu2019t just right with Magnitude. u201cWhen they adopt exploit kits, itu2019s a mixture of the frequency of adoption to avoid security solutions and how quickly it incorporates the latest exploits,u201d Watson said. u201cThe third aspect is the cost of the business arrangement for the exploit kit and if it can be competitive with what Blackhole was before.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a116cefc42b00293d65" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "Possible New Version of GameOver Zeus Malware Emerges", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/possible-new-version-of-gameover-zeus-malware-emerges/107163/", "Date" : "July 11, 2014 , 1:55 pm", "Article" : "Itu2019s only been a little more than a month since the FBI and Europol took down the GameOver Zeus botnet, taking control of its command-and-control infrastructure and effectively cutting off the malwareu2019s head. But researchers say that there are some indications that a new strain of the malware may already be active again. GameOver Zeus was a major source of badness on the Web for several years and the botnet was used to distribute the nasty CryptoLocker ransomware. In early June, authorities at the FBI and Europol, in cooperation with a number of security companies and researchers, seized some servers involved in the command and control of the GOZ botnet and redirected the traffic destined for those C2 servers. The operation was complicated, especially given the peer-to-peer architecture of the GOZ network. Researchers at Malcovery Security came across a series of new spam campaigns on Thursday that were distributing a piece of malware that they say looks to be based on the GOZ binary. The campaigns mainly comprise fake notifications from financial institutions, including M&T Bank and NatWest.u00a0All of the malicious emails contain a zip file with a .scr attachment inside. u201cOnce the attachment was opened and the malware payload executed, the malware began to make attempts to contact certain websites in accordance with a domain generation algorithm. The goal of these contact attempts is to make contact with a server that can in turn provide instructions to the malware. Many sandboxes would have failed to launch the malware, as the presence of VMWare Tools will stop the malware from executing,u201d the analysis of the malware by Brendan Griffin and Gary Warner of Malcovery says. u201cOther sandboxes would not have noticed the successful connection, because the malware took between 6 and 10 minutes to randomly generate the single domain name that was used successfully to launch the new Zeus trojan and download the bank information u2018webinjectu2019 files from the server.u201d Though the original GOZ malware also used a domain generation algorithm, this version uses a different list of potential C2 domains, thanks to the seizure of the original infrastructure. u201cThis new DGA list is not related to the original GameOver Zeus but bears a striking resemblance to the DGA utilized by that trojan. In addition to a new DGA, the malware seems to have traded its Peer to Peer Infrastructure for a new Fast Flux hosted C&C strategy,u201d the analysis says. Itu2019s not clear how many infections the new malware strain has at this point, but researchers say that the Trojan has many of the same characteristics and capabilities as the old GOZ malware. u201cMalcovery was able to identify a number of the command-and-control hosts believed to be involved in this attempt to revive the GameOver botnet. Following contact with any of these hosts, the malware began to exhibit behaviors characteristic of the GameOver trojanu2014including the characteristic list of URLs and URL substrings targeted by the malware for Web injects, form-grabs, and other information stealing capabilities,u201d the analysis says. u201cThis discovery indicates that the criminals responsible for GameOveru2019s distribution do not intend to give up on this botnet even after suffering one of the most expansive botnet takeovers/takedowns in history.u201d " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a1b6cefc42b00293d77" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "PrisonLocker Ransomware Emerges From Criminal Forums", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/prisonlocker-ransomware-emerges-from-criminal-forums/103443/", "Date" : "January 6, 2014 , 3:04 pm", "Article" : "Security researchers from Malware Must Die uncovered new ransomware called PrisonLocker, and said the malware author is either a legitimate security researcher or is posing as one via a personal blog and Twitter handle. Malware Must Die has monitored PrisonLockeru2019s development since spotting it for sale on an underground criminal hacking forum in November. The ransomware, also known as PowerLocker, is all-but ready for sale. At the moment, it appears to lack a completed graphical user interface and is still undergoing quality assurance tests. Once itu2019s ready, the creator claims he will sell the malware for roughly $100 per license, which can be paid using cryptocurrency Bitcoin. According to specifications listed by the author in a number of locations, the PrisonLocker infection process will begin with a Trojan that drops a single executable file into a temp folder. Following successful installation, PrisonLocker is designed to encrypt nearly every file on infected machines, including those on hard drives and shared drives but excluding .exe, .dll, .sys, and other system files. According to a Pastebin post from Dec. 19, PrisonLocker will deploy the Blowfish cipher, and each infected machine will have a corresponding Blowfish decryption key that is encrypted using RSA AES 2048-bit encryption. Other features include persistence through Windows registry keys, disabling infected usersu2019 Windows and escape buttons, and blocking task manager, command prompt, registry editor, and other Windows utilities. Like CryptoLocker, infected users will be given a predetermined amount of time to pay the ransom before the decryption key is forever deleted. Whoever administers the ransomware will have the ability to choose the preset amount of time and pause or reset this deletion clock in order to examine ransom payments. Other customizable features include naming and placing the infection file, determining the ransom amount and method of payment, and the establishing the username and password for the administrative panel, which is set as u201cadminu201d and u201cadminu201d by default. PrisonLocker also boasts a number of analysis prevention features. Its author claims it detects basic virtual machine, sandbox, and debugger environments. The malware will also set up what its creator calls a u201clocked window in a new desktop.u201d This, the creator claims, will render useless the u201calt+tabu201d command and, thus, all other applications. Beyond that, even if a user manages to escape the locked window, PrisonLocker includes a module that forces the locked window to the forefront of the useru2019s desktop every few milliseconds. Interestingly, the ICQ messaging ID and email address associated with the malware authoru2019s handle (gyx) on a number of sites is also associated with the twitter handle @Wenhsl and the security blog Wenhsl[.]blogspot[.]com. In that Twitter profileu2019s bio, the user describes himself as the following: u201cSecurity enthusiast. Novice infosec/malware researcher and cybercrime analyst. C/C++ and currently polishing up my MASM.u201d PrisonLocker is written in C++. Malware Must Die suggests that the author may either be double dipping as a security researcher and a criminal, or merely pretending to be a benevolent security researcher to cover his tracks as a criminal. Malware Must Die contacted various law enforcement agencies and provided this information to them. " }n"
"{ "_id" : { "$oid" : "5b365a356cefc42b00293da1" }, "Category" : "Malware", "Title" : "CryptoLocker Creators Infected Nearly 250,000 Systems, Earned $300k Since September", "Address" : "https://threatpost.com/cryptolocker-creators-infected-nearly-250000-systems-earned-30m-since-september/103261/", "Date" : "December 20, 2013 , 9:45 am", "Article" : "UPDATE:u00a0The math in this and other reports was simply tabulated incorrectly. New American presidents often are measured by what they accomplish in their first 100 days. By that yardstick, the crew behind the CryptoLocker ransomware have been a raging success. The unknown group of attackers have already infected between 200,000 and 250,000 systems worldwide and likely raked far greater than $30o,ooo in ransom to date, according to researchers at Dell SecureWorks CTU, who published a deep analysis on the malware this week. In a blog posted Wednesday, Keith Jarvis, a Senior Security Researcher with Dell SecureWorks, discussed the history of CryptoLocker and described how the malware is able to encrypt its victimsu2019 files until they pay a ransom, usually around $300. While all of the research is an interesting read, itu2019s especially noteworthy that the analysis has finally given us an idea how many computers have been infected since the malware surfaced shortly after the beginning of September. It was reported the malware was sent to u201ctens of millionsu201d of online banking customers in the U.K. in November but at the time it wasnu2019t certain just how many machines had actually opened the malicious attachment and were legitimately infected. Now itu2019s clear that somewhere between 200,000 and 250,000 systems have been infected globally in the threatu2019s first 100 days, with the bulk of the attacks targeting machines in the United States. CryptoLocker infections have surged over the last few months with officials from the u00a0US-CERT and the U.K.u2019s National Crime Agencyu2019s National Cyber Crime Unit warning computer users in their regions about CryptoLocker infections in October and November, respectively. While both nations sounded the alarm, it was the U.S., at least from October 22 to November 1, that saw the lionu2019s share of infections. The United States saw 22,360 infections, accounting for a staggering 70.2 percent of the total infections over that time period. Great Britain came in a distant second with almost 2,000 infected systems, or about 5.5 percent of total infections. As expected, the jump in infections coincided with a barrage of spam from the Cutwail botnet. Attackers used emails sent out in October by botnets like Cutwail as vehicles for malware like Zeus Gameover that distributed and delivered CryptoLocker. CryptoLocker infections have faded somewhat over the last week or so though, and allowed the U.S. and the U.K. to more or less even up with each other. From December 9 to December 16, the United States tallied 24 percent of all infections while the U.K. accounted for 19 percent of all infections. While it was already established that CryptoLocker relies on multiple payment platforms u2014 electronic methods like MoneyPak, CashU, Ukash and Paysafecard u2014 to facilitate ransom, it wasnu2019t until October that it wasu00a0discoveredu00a0that the malware had also begun accepting Bitcoin, the all-the-rage-these-days digital crypto-currency, to let users decrypt their files. SecureWorks estimates that if the malware creators had actually cashed in the 1,216 BTC (Bitcoin) they collected over this period they couldu2019ve made $380,000. Since Bitcoin conversion rates fluctuate wildly though, thatu2019s a far cry from what they couldu2019ve earned if they had held onto it until today. The attackersu2019 Bitcoins could fetch around $980,000 currently according to Jarvis, who used the current weighted price of $804/BTC in his calculations. Jarvis stresses that this is still a u201cconservative estimateu201d though and goes on to note that a tiny fraction of CryptoLocker victims, only 0.4%,u00a0actually pay the ransom. At that rate however itu2019s likely that the CryptoLocker gang managed to convince at least 1,000 or so victims to pay up. At $300 a pop, thatu2019s a cool $300,000 the attackers earned in just over 100 days, a profit theyu2019ve clearly managed to conceal. u201cBased on the duration and scale of attacks, they also appear to have the established and substantial u2018real worldu2019 infrastructure necessary to u2018cash outu2019 ransoms and launder the proceeds,u201d Jarvis said, crediting the attackersu2019 prowess. " }n"
%%%Flamer2012——2013
